Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Neil Houlsby 1 Andrei Giurgiu 1 * Stanisław Jastrze¸bski 2 * Bruna Morrone 1 Quentin de Laroussilhe 1
Andrea Gesmundo 1 Mona Attariyan 1 Sylvain Gelly 1
Abstract
Fine-tuning large pre-trained models is an effec-
tive transfer mechanism in NLP. However, in the
presence of many downstream tasks, ﬁne-tuning
is parameter inefﬁcient: an entire new model is
required for every task. As an alternative, we
propose transfer with adapter modules. Adapter
modules yield a compact and extensible model;
they add only a few trainable parameters per task,
and new tasks can be added without revisiting
previous ones. The parameters of the original
network remain ﬁxed, yielding a high degree of
parameter sharing. To demonstrate adapter’s ef-
fectiveness, we transfer the recently proposed
BERT Transformer model to 26 diverse text clas-
siﬁcation tasks, including the GLUE benchmark.
Adapters attain near state-of-the-art performance,
whilst adding only a few parameters per task. On
GLUE, we attain within 0.4% of the performance
of full ﬁne-tuning, adding only 3.6% parameters
per task. By contrast, ﬁne-tuning trains 100% of
the parameters per task.1
1. Introduction
Transfer from pre-trained models yields strong performance
on many NLP tasks (Dai & Le, 2015; Howard & Ruder,
2018; Radford et al., 2018). BERT, a Transformer network
trained on large text corpora with an unsupervised loss,
attained state-of-the-art performance on text classiﬁcation
and extractive question answering (Devlin et al., 2018).
In this paper we address the online setting, where tasks
arrive in a stream. The goal is to build a system that per-
forms well on all of them, but without training an entire new
model for every new task. A high degree of sharing between
*Equal contribution 1Google Research 2Jagiellonian University.
Correspondence to: Neil Houlsby <neilhoulsby@google.com>.
Proceedings of the 36 th International Conference on Machine
Learning, Long Beach, California, PMLR 97, 2019. Copyright
2019 by the author(s).
1Code at https://github.com/google-research/
adapter-bert
105
106
107
108
109
Num trainable parameters / task
−25
−20
−15
−10
−5
0
5
Accuracy delta (%)
Adapters (ours)
Fine-tune top layers
Figure 1. Trade-off between accuracy and number of trained task-
speciﬁc parameters, for adapter tuning and ﬁne-tuning. The y-axis
is normalized by the performance of full ﬁne-tuning, details in
Section 3. The curves show the 20th, 50th, and 80th performance
percentiles across nine tasks from the GLUE benchmark. Adapter-
based tuning attains a similar performance to full ﬁne-tuning with
two orders of magnitude fewer trained parameters.
tasks is particularly useful for applications such as cloud
services, where models need to be trained to solve many
tasks that arrive from customers in sequence. For this, we
propose a transfer learning strategy that yields compact and
extensible downstream models. Compact models are those
that solve many tasks using a small number of additional
parameters per task. Extensible models can be trained in-
crementally to solve new tasks, without forgetting previous
ones. Our method yields a such models without sacriﬁcing
performance.
The two most common transfer learning techniques in NLP
are feature-based transfer and ﬁne-tuning.
Instead, we
present an alternative transfer method based on adapter
modules (Rebufﬁet al., 2017). Features-based transfer in-
volves pre-training real-valued embeddings vectors. These
embeddings may be at the word (Mikolov et al., 2013), sen-
tence (Cer et al., 2019), or paragraph level (Le & Mikolov,
2014). The embeddings are then fed to custom downstream
models. Fine-tuning involves copying the weights from a
pre-trained network and tuning them on the downstream
task. Recent work shows that ﬁne-tuning often enjoys better
arXiv:1902.00751v2  [cs.LG]  13 Jun 2019
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
performance than feature-based transfer (Howard & Ruder,
2018).
Both feature-based transfer and ﬁne-tuning require a new
set of weights for each task. Fine-tuning is more parameter
efﬁcient if the lower layers of a network are shared between
tasks. However, our proposed adapter tuning method is even
more parameter efﬁcient. Figure 1 demonstrates this trade-
off. The x-axis shows the number of parameters trained per
task; this corresponds to the marginal increase in the model
size required to solve each additional task. Adapter-based
tuning requires training two orders of magnitude fewer pa-
rameters to ﬁne-tuning, while attaining similar performance.
Adapters are new modules added between layers of a
pre-trained network. Adapter-based tuning differs from
feature-based transfer and ﬁne-tuning in the following way.
Consider a function (neural network) with parameters w:
φw(x). Feature-based transfer composes φw with a new
function, χv, to yield χv(φw(x)). Only the new, task-
speciﬁc, parameters, v, are then trained. Fine-tuning in-
volves adjusting the original parameters, w, for each new
task, limiting compactness.
For adapter tuning, a new
function, ψw,v(x), is deﬁned, where parameters w are
copied over from pre-training. The initial parameters v0
are set such that the new function resembles the original:
ψw,v0(x) ≈φw(x). During training, only v are tuned.
For deep networks, deﬁning ψw,v typically involves adding
new layers to the original network, φw. If one chooses
|v| ≪|w|, the resulting model requires ∼|w| parameters
for many tasks. Since w is ﬁxed, the model can be extended
to new tasks without affecting previous ones.
Adapter-based tuning relates to multi-task and continual
learning. Multi-task learning also results in compact models.
However, multi-task learning requires simultaneous access
to all tasks, which adapter-based tuning does not require.
Continual learning systems aim to learn from an endless
stream of tasks. This paradigm is challenging because net-
works forget previous tasks after re-training (McCloskey
& Cohen, 1989; French, 1999). Adapters differ in that the
tasks do not interact and the shared parameters are frozen.
This means that the model has perfect memory of previous
tasks using a small number of task-speciﬁc parameters.
We demonstrate on a large and diverse set of text classiﬁca-
tion tasks that adapters yield parameter-efﬁcient tuning for
NLP. The key innovation is to design an effective adapter
module and its integration with the base model. We propose
a simple yet effective, bottleneck architecture. On the GLUE
benchmark, our strategy almost matches the performance of
the fully ﬁne-tuned BERT, but uses only 3% task-speciﬁc
parameters, while ﬁne-tuning uses 100% task-speciﬁc pa-
rameters. We observe similar results on a further 17 public
text datasets, and SQuAD extractive question answering. In
summary, adapter-based tuning yields a single, extensible,
model that attains near state-of-the-art performance in text
classiﬁcation.
2. Adapter tuning for NLP
We present a strategy for tuning a large text model on several
downstream tasks. Our strategy has three key properties:
(i) it attains good performance, (ii) it permits training on
tasks sequentially, that is, it does not require simultaneous
access to all datasets, and (iii) it adds only a small number
of additional parameters per task. These properties are
especially useful in the context of cloud services, where
many models need to be trained on a series of downstream
tasks, so a high degree of sharing is desirable.
To achieve these properties, we propose a new bottleneck
adapter module. Tuning with adapter modules involves
adding a small number of new parameters to a model, which
are trained on the downstream task (Rebufﬁet al., 2017).
When performing vanilla ﬁne-tuning of deep networks, a
modiﬁcation is made to the top layer of the network. This is
required because the label spaces and losses for the upstream
and downstream tasks differ. Adapter modules perform
more general architectural modiﬁcations to re-purpose a pre-
trained network for a downstream task. In particular, the
adapter tuning strategy involves injecting new layers into
the original network. The weights of the original network
are untouched, whilst the new adapter layers are initialized
at random. In standard ﬁne-tuning, the new top-layer and
the original weights are co-trained. In contrast, in adapter-
tuning, the parameters of the original network are frozen
and therefore may be shared by many tasks.
Adapter modules have two main features: a small number
of parameters, and a near-identity initialization. The adapter
modules need to be small compared to the layers of the orig-
inal network. This means that the total model size grows
relatively slowly when more tasks are added. A near-identity
initialization is required for stable training of the adapted
model; we investigate this empirically in Section 3.6. By
initializing the adapters to a near-identity function, original
network is unaffected when training starts. During training,
the adapters may then be activated to change the distribution
of activations throughout the network. The adapter mod-
ules may also be ignored if not required; in Section 3.6 we
observe that some adapters have more inﬂuence on the net-
work than others. We also observe that if the initialization
deviates too far from the identity function, the model may
fail to train.
2.1. Instantiation for Transformer Networks
We instantiate adapter-based tuning for text Transformers.
These models attain state-of-the-art performance in many
NLP tasks, including translation, extractive QA, and text
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Multi-headed 
attention
Layer Norm
+
Adapter
2x Feed-forward 
layer
Layer Norm
+
Adapter
Feed-forward layer
Transformer
Layer
Nonlinearity
Feedforward 
up-project
Feedforward 
down-project
Adapter 
Layer
+
Figure 2. Architecture of the adapter module and its integration
with the Transformer. Left: We add the adapter module twice
to each Transformer layer: after the projection following multi-
headed attention and after the two feed-forward layers. Right: The
adapter consists of a bottleneck which contains few parameters rel-
ative to the attention and feedforward layers in the original model.
The adapter also contains a skip-connection. During adapter tun-
ing, the green layers are trained on the downstream data, this
includes the adapter, the layer normalization parameters, and the
ﬁnal classiﬁcation layer (not shown in the ﬁgure).
classiﬁcation problems (Vaswani et al., 2017; Radford et al.,
2018; Devlin et al., 2018). We consider the standard Trans-
former architecture, as proposed in Vaswani et al. (2017).
Adapter modules present many architectural choices. We
provide a simple design that attains good performance. We
experimented with a number of more complex designs, see
Section 3.6, but we found the following strategy performed
as well as any other that we tested, across many datasets.
Figure 2 shows our adapter architecture, and its application
it to the Transformer. Each layer of the Transformer contains
two primary sub-layers: an attention layer and a feedforward
layer. Both layers are followed immediately by a projection
that maps the features size back to the size of layer’s input.
A skip-connection is applied across each of the sub-layers.
The output of each sub-layer is fed into layer normalization.
We insert two serial adapters after each of these sub-layers.
The adapter is always applied directly to the output of the
sub-layer, after the projection back to the input size, but
before adding the skip connection back. The output of
the adapter is then passed directly into the following layer
normalization.
To limit the number of parameters, we propose a bottle-
neck architecture. The adapters ﬁrst project the original
d-dimensional features into a smaller dimension, m, apply
a nonlinearity, then project back to d dimensions. The total
number of parameters added per layer, including biases, is
2md + d + m. By setting m ≪d, we limit the number
of parameters added per task; in practice, we use around
0.5 −8% of the parameters of the original model. The
bottleneck dimension, m, provides a simple means to trade-
off performance with parameter efﬁciency. The adapter
module itself has a skip-connection internally. With the
skip-connection, if the parameters of the projection layers
are initialized to near-zero, the module is initialized to an
approximate identity function.
Alongside the layers in the adapter module, we also train
new layer normalization parameters per task. This tech-
nique, similar to conditional batch normalization (De Vries
et al., 2017), FiLM (Perez et al., 2018), and self-
modulation (Chen et al., 2019), also yields parameter-
efﬁcient adaptation of a network; with only 2d parameters
per layer. However, training the layer normalization pa-
rameters alone is insufﬁcient for good performance, see
Section 3.4.
3. Experiments
We show that adapters achieve parameter efﬁcient transfer
for text tasks. On the GLUE benchmark (Wang et al., 2018),
adapter tuning is within 0.4% of full ﬁne-tuning of BERT,
but it adds only 3% of the number of parameters trained by
ﬁne-tuning. We conﬁrm this result on a further 17 public
classiﬁcation tasks and SQuAD question answering. Analy-
sis shows that adapter-based tuning automatically focuses
on the higher layers of the network.
3.1. Experimental Settings
We use the public, pre-trained BERT Transformer network
as our base model. To perform classiﬁcation with BERT,
we follow the approach in Devlin et al. (2018). The ﬁrst
token in each sequence is a special “classiﬁcation token”.
We attach a linear layer to the embedding of this token to
predict the class label.
Our training procedure also follows Devlin et al. (2018).
We optimize using Adam (Kingma & Ba, 2014), whose
learning rate is increased linearly over the ﬁrst 10% of the
steps, and then decayed linearly to zero. All runs are trained
on 4 Google Cloud TPUs with a batch size of 32. For each
dataset and algorithm, we run a hyperparameter sweep and
select the best model according to accuracy on the validation
set. For the GLUE tasks, we report the test metrics provided
by the submission website2. For the other classiﬁcation
tasks we report test-set accuracy.
2https://gluebenchmark.com/
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
We compare to ﬁne-tuning, the current standard for transfer
of large pre-trained models, and the strategy successfully
used by BERT. For N tasks, full ﬁne-tuning requires N×
the number of parameters of the pre-trained model. Our
goal is to attain performance equal to ﬁne-tuning, but with
fewer total parameters, ideally near to 1×.
3.2. GLUE benchmark
We ﬁrst evaluate on GLUE.3 For these datasets, we trans-
fer from the pre-trained BERTLARGE model, which con-
tains 24 layers, and a total of 330M parameters, see Devlin
et al. (2018) for details. We perform a small hyperparam-
eter sweep for adapter tuning: We sweep learning rates
in {3 · 10−5, 3 · 10−4, 3 · 10−3}, and number of epochs
in {3, 20}. We test both using a ﬁxed adapter size (num-
ber of units in the bottleneck), and selecting the best size
per task from {8, 64, 256}. The adapter size is the only
adapter-speciﬁc hyperparameter that we tune. Finally, due
to training instability, we re-run 5 times with different ran-
dom seeds and select the best model on the validation set.
Table 1 summarizes the results. Adapters achieve a mean
GLUE score of 80.0, compared to 80.4 achieved by full
ﬁne-tuning. The optimal adapter size varies per dataset. For
example, 256 is chosen for MNLI, whereas for the smallest
dataset, RTE, 8 is chosen. Restricting always to size 64,
leads to a small decrease in average accuracy to 79.6. To
solve all of the datasets in Table 1, ﬁne-tuning requires 9×
the total number of BERT parameters.4 In contrast, adapters
require only 1.3× parameters.
3.3. Additional Classiﬁcation Tasks
To further validate that adapters yields compact, performant,
models, we test on additional, publicly available, text clas-
siﬁcation tasks. This suite contains a diverse set of tasks:
The number of training examples ranges from 900 to 330k,
the number of classes ranges from 2 to 157, and the average
text length ranging from 57 to 1.9k characters. Statistics
and references for all of the datasets are in the appendix.
For these datasets, we use a batch size of 32. The datasets
are diverse, so we sweep a wide range of learning rates:
{1 · 10−5, 3 · 10−5, 1 · 10−4, 3 · 10−3}. Due to the large
number of datasets, we select the number of training epochs
from the set {20, 50, 100} manually, from inspection of the
validation set learning curves. We select the optimal values
for both ﬁne-tuning and adapters; the exact values are in the
appendix.
3 We omit WNLI as in Devlin et al. (2018) because the no
current algorithm beats the baseline of predicting the majority
class.
4 We treat MNLIm and MNLImm as separate tasks with individ-
ually tuned hyperparameters. However, they could be combined
into one model, leaving 8× overall.
We test adapters sizes in {2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64}. Since some
of the datasets are small, ﬁne-tuning the entire network
may be sub-optimal. Therefore, we run an additional base-
line: variable ﬁne-tuning.
For this, we ﬁne-tune only
the top n layers, and freeze the remainder.
We sweep
n ∈{1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 12}. In these experiments, we use
the BERTBASE model with 12 layers, therefore, variable
ﬁne-tuning subsumes full ﬁne-tuning when n = 12.
Unlike the GLUE tasks, there is no comprehensive set of
state-of-the-art numbers for this suite of tasks. Therefore, to
conﬁrm that our BERT-based models are competitive, we
collect our own benchmark performances. For this, we run
a large-scale hyperparameter search over standard network
topologies. Speciﬁcally, we run the single-task Neural Au-
toML algorithm, similar to Zoph & Le (2017); Wong et al.
(2018). This algorithm searches over a space of feedfor-
ward and convolutional networks, stacked on pre-trained
text embeddings modules publicly available via TensorFlow
Hub5. The embeddings coming from the TensorFlow Hub
modules may be frozen or ﬁne-tuned. The full search space
is described in the appendix. For each task, we run AutoML
for one week on CPUs, using 30 machines. In this time
the algorithm explores over 10k models on average per task.
We select the best ﬁnal model for each task according to
validation set accuracy.
The results for the AutoML benchmark (“no BERT base-
line”), ﬁne-tuning, variable ﬁne-tuning, and adapter-tuning
are reported in Table 2. The AutoML baseline demon-
strates that the BERT models are competitive. This baseline
explores thousands of models, yet the BERT models per-
form better on average. We see similar pattern of results to
GLUE. The performance of adapter-tuning is close to full
ﬁne-tuning (0.4% behind). Fine-tuning requires 17× the
number of parameters to BERTBASE to solve all tasks. Vari-
able ﬁne-tuning performs slightly better than ﬁne-tuning,
whilst training fewer layers. The optimal setting of variable
ﬁne-tuning results in training 52% of the network on average
per task, reducing the total to 9.9× parameters. Adapters,
however, offer a much more compact model. They intro-
duce 1.14% new parameters per task, resulting in 1.19×
parameters for all 17 tasks.
3.4. Parameter/Performance trade-off
The adapter size controls the parameter efﬁciency, smaller
adapters introduce fewer parameters, at a possible cost to
performance. To explore this trade-off, we consider different
adapter sizes, and compare to two baselines: (i) Fine-tuning
of only the top k layers of BERTBASE. (ii) Tuning only the
layer normalization parameters. The learning rate is tuned
using the range presented in Section 3.2.
5https://www.tensorflow.org/hub
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Total num
params
Trained
params / task
CoLA
SST
MRPC
STS-B
QQP
MNLIm
MNLImm
QNLI
RTE
Total
BERTLARGE
9.0×
100%
60.5
94.9
89.3
87.6
72.1
86.7
85.9
91.1
70.1
80.4
Adapters (8-256)
1.3×
3.6%
59.5
94.0
89.5
86.9
71.8
84.9
85.1
90.7
71.5
80.0
Adapters (64)
1.2×
2.1%
56.9
94.2
89.6
87.3
71.8
85.3
84.6
91.4
68.8
79.6
Table 1. Results on GLUE test sets scored using the GLUE evaluation server. MRPC and QQP are evaluated using F1 score. STS-B is
evaluated using Spearman’s correlation coefﬁcient. CoLA is evaluated using Matthew’s Correlation. The other tasks are evaluated using
accuracy. Adapter tuning achieves comparable overall score (80.0) to full ﬁne-tuning (80.4) using 1.3× parameters in total, compared to
9×. Fixing the adapter size to 64 leads to a slightly decreased overall score of 79.6 and slightly smaller model.
Dataset
No BERT
baseline
BERTBASE
Fine-tune
BERTBASE
Variable FT
BERTBASE
Adapters
20 newsgroups
91.1
92.8 ± 0.1
92.8 ± 0.1
91.7 ± 0.2
Crowdﬂower airline
84.5
83.6 ± 0.3
84.0 ± 0.1
84.5 ± 0.2
Crowdﬂower corporate messaging
91.9
92.5 ± 0.5
92.4 ± 0.6
92.9 ± 0.3
Crowdﬂower disasters
84.9
85.3 ± 0.4
85.3 ± 0.4
84.1 ± 0.2
Crowdﬂower economic news relevance
81.1
82.1 ± 0.0
78.9 ± 2.8
82.5 ± 0.3
Crowdﬂower emotion
36.3
38.4 ± 0.1
37.6 ± 0.2
38.7 ± 0.1
Crowdﬂower global warming
82.7
84.2 ± 0.4
81.9 ± 0.2
82.7 ± 0.3
Crowdﬂower political audience
81.0
80.9 ± 0.3
80.7 ± 0.8
79.0 ± 0.5
Crowdﬂower political bias
76.8
75.2 ± 0.9
76.5 ± 0.4
75.9 ± 0.3
Crowdﬂower political message
43.8
38.9 ± 0.6
44.9 ± 0.6
44.1 ± 0.2
Crowdﬂower primary emotions
33.5
36.9 ± 1.6
38.2 ± 1.0
33.9 ± 1.4
Crowdﬂower progressive opinion
70.6
71.6 ± 0.5
75.9 ± 1.3
71.7 ± 1.1
Crowdﬂower progressive stance
54.3
63.8 ± 1.0
61.5 ± 1.3
60.6 ± 1.4
Crowdﬂower US economic performance
75.6
75.3 ± 0.1
76.5 ± 0.4
77.3 ± 0.1
Customer complaint database
54.5
55.9 ± 0.1
56.4 ± 0.1
55.4 ± 0.1
News aggregator dataset
95.2
96.3 ± 0.0
96.5 ± 0.0
96.2 ± 0.0
SMS spam collection
98.5
99.3 ± 0.2
99.3 ± 0.2
95.1 ± 2.2
Average
72.7
73.7
74.0
73.3
Total number of params
—
17×
9.9×
1.19×
Trained params/task
—
100%
52.9%
1.14%
Table 2. Test accuracy for additional classiﬁcation tasks. In these experiments we transfer from the BERTBASE model. For each task
and algorithm, the model with the best validation set accuracy is chosen. We report the mean test accuracy and s.e.m. across runs with
different random seeds.
Figure 3 shows the parameter/performance trade-off ag-
gregated over all classiﬁcation tasks in each suite (GLUE
and “additional”). On GLUE, performance decreases dra-
matically when fewer layers are ﬁne-tuned. Some of the
additional tasks beneﬁt from training fewer layers, so per-
formance of ﬁne-tuning decays much less. In both cases,
adapters yield good performance across a range of sizes two
orders of magnitude fewer than ﬁne-tuning.
Figure 4 shows more details for two GLUE tasks: MNLIm
and CoLA. Tuning the top layers trains more task-speciﬁc
parameters for all k > 2. When ﬁne-tuning using a compa-
rable number of task-speciﬁc parameters, the performance
decreases substantially compared to adapters. For instance,
ﬁne-tuning just the top layer yields approximately 9M train-
able parameters and 77.8% ± 0.1% validation accuracy on
MNLIm. In contrast, adapter tuning with size 64 yields ap-
proximately 2M trainable parameters and 83.7% ± 0.1%
validation accuracy. For comparison, full ﬁne-tuning attains
84.4% ± 0.02% on MNLIm. We observe a similar trend on
CoLA.
As a further comparison, we tune the parameters of layer
normalization alone. These layers only contain point-wise
additions and multiplications, so introduce very few train-
able parameters: 40k for BERTBASE. However this strategy
performs poorly: performance decreases by approximately
3.5% on CoLA and 4% on MNLI.
To summarize, adapter tuning is highly parameter-efﬁcient,
and produces a compact model with a strong performance,
comparable to full ﬁne-tuning. Training adapters with sizes
0.5 −5% of the original model, performance is within 1%
of the competitive published results on BERTLARGE.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
GLUE (BERTLARGE)
Additional Tasks (BERTBASE)
105
106
107
108
109
Num trainable parameters / task
−25
−20
−15
−10
−5
0
5
Accuracy delta (%)
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
105
106
107
108
Num trainable parameters / task
−4
−3
−2
−1
0
1
2
3
Accuracy delta (%)
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
Figure 3. Accuracy versus the number of trained parameters, aggregated across tasks. We compare adapters of different sizes (orange)
with ﬁne-tuning the top n layers, for varying n (blue). The lines and shaded areas indicate the 20th, 50th, and 80th percentiles across
tasks. For each task and algorithm, the best model is selected for each point along the curve. For GLUE, the validation set accuracy is
reported. For the additional tasks, we report the test-set accuracies. To remove the intra-task variance in scores, we normalize the scores
for each model and task by subtracting the performance of full ﬁne-tuning on the corresponding task.
MNLIm(BERTBASE)
CoLA (BERTBASE)
104
105
106
107
108
Num trainable parameters / task
76
78
80
82
84
86
Validation accuracy (%)
Layer Norm.
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
104
105
106
107
108
Num trainable parameters / task
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
Validation accuracy (%)
Layer Norm.
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
Figure 4. Validation set accuracy versus number of trained parameters for three methods: (i) Adapter tuning with an adapter sizes 2n
for n = 0 . . . 9 (orange). (ii) Fine-tuning the top k layers for k = 1 . . . 12 (blue). (iii) Tuning the layer normalization parameters only
(green). Error bars indicate ±1 s.e.m. across three random seeds.
3.5. SQuAD Extractive Question Answering
Finally, we conﬁrm that adapters work on tasks other than
classiﬁcation by running on SQuAD v1.1 (Rajpurkar et al.,
2018). Given a question and Wikipedia paragraph, this task
requires selecting the answer span to the question from the
paragraph. Figure 5 displays the parameter/performance
trade-off of ﬁne-tuning and adapters on the SQuAD valida-
tion set. For ﬁne-tuning, we sweep the number of trained lay-
ers, learning rate in {3·10−5, 5·10−5, 1·10−4}, and number
of epochs in {2, 3, 5}. For adapters, we sweep the adapter
size, learning rate in {3 · 10−5, 1 · 10−4, 3 · 10−4, 1 · 10−3},
and number of epochs in {3, 10, 20}. As for classiﬁcation,
adapters attain performance comparable to full ﬁne-tuning,
while training many fewer parameters. Adapters of size 64
(2% parameters) attain a best F1 of 90.4%, while ﬁne-tuning
attains 90.7. SQuAD performs well even with very small
adapters, those of size 2 (0.1% parameters) attain an F1 of
89.9.
3.6. Analysis and Discussion
We perform an ablation to determine which adapters are
inﬂuential. For this, we remove some trained adapters and
re-evaluate the model (without re-training) on the valida-
tion set. Figure 6 shows the change in performance when
removing adapters from all continuous layer spans. The
experiment is performed on BERTBASE with adapter size 64
on MNLI and CoLA.
First, we observe that removing any single layer’s adapters
has only a small impact on performance. The elements on
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
105
106
107
108
109
Num trainable parameters
70
75
80
85
90
95
f1 score
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
Figure 5. Validation accuracy versus the number of trained param-
eters for SQuAD v1.1. Error bars indicate the s.e.m. across three
seeds, using the best hyperparameters.
the heatmaps’ diagonals show the performances of removing
adapters from single layers, where largest performance drop
is 2%. In contrast, when all of the adapters are removed
from the network, the performance drops substantially: to
37% on MNLI and 69% on CoLA – scores attained by
predicting the majority class. This indicates that although
each adapter has a small inﬂuence on the overall network,
the overall effect is large.
Second, Figure 6 suggests that adapters on the lower layers
have a smaller impact than the higher-layers. Removing
the adapters from the layers 0 −4 on MNLI barely affects
performance. This indicates that adapters perform well
because they automatically prioritize higher layers. Indeed,
focusing on the upper layers is a popular strategy in ﬁne-
tuning (Howard & Ruder, 2018). One intuition is that the
lower layers extract lower-level features that are shared
among tasks, while the higher layers build features that are
unique to different tasks. This relates to our observation that
for some tasks, ﬁne-tuning only the top layers outperforms
full ﬁne-tuning, see Table 2.
Next, we investigate the robustness of the adapter modules
to the number of neurons and initialization scale. In our
main experiments the weights in the adapter module were
drawn from a zero-mean Gaussian with standard deviation
10−2, truncated to two standard deviations. To analyze the
impact of the initialization scale on the performance, we
test standard deviations in the interval [10−7, 1]. Figure 6
summarizes the results. We observe that on both datasets,
the performance of adapters is robust for standard deviations
below 10−2. However, when the initialization is too large,
performance degrades, more substantially on CoLA.
To investigate robustness of adapters to the number of neu-
rons, we re-examine the experimental data from Section 3.2.
We ﬁnd that the quality of the model across adapter sizes is
stable, and a ﬁxed adapter size across all the tasks could be
used with small detriment to performance. For each adapter
size we calculate the mean validation accuracy across the
eight classiﬁcation tasks by selecting the optimal learning
rate and number of epochs6. For adapter sizes 8, 64, and
256, the mean validation accuracies are 86.2%, 85.8% and
85.7%, respectively. This message is further corroborated
by Figures 4 and 5, which show a stable performance across
a few orders of magnitude.
Finally, we tried a number of extensions to the adapter’s
architecture that did not yield a signiﬁcant boost in perfor-
mance. We document them here for completeness. We
experimented with (i) adding a batch/layer normalization to
the adapter, (ii) increasing the number of layers per adapter,
(iii) different activation functions, such as tanh, (iv) inserting
adapters only inside the attention layer, (v) adding adapters
in parallel to the main layers, and possibly with a multi-
plicative interaction. In all cases we observed the resulting
performance to be similar to the bottleneck proposed in
Section 2.1. Therefore, due to its simplicity and strong per-
formance, we recommend the original adapter architecture.
4. Related Work
Pre-trained text representations
Pre-trained textual rep-
resentations are widely used to improve performance on
NLP tasks. These representations are trained on large cor-
pora (usually unsupervised), and fed as features to down-
stream models. In deep networks, these features may also be
ﬁne-tuned on the downstream task. Brown clusters, trained
on distributional information, are a classic example of pre-
trained representations (Brown et al., 1992). Turian et al.
(2010) show that pre-trained embeddings of words outper-
form those trained from scratch. Since deep-learning be-
came popular, word embeddings have been widely used, and
many training strategies have arisen (Mikolov et al., 2013;
Pennington et al., 2014; Bojanowski et al., 2017). Embed-
dings of longer texts, sentences and paragraphs, have also
been developed (Le & Mikolov, 2014; Kiros et al., 2015;
Conneau et al., 2017; Cer et al., 2019).
To encode context in these representations, features are
extracted from internal representations of sequence models,
such as MT systems (McCann et al., 2017), and BiLSTM
language models, as used in ELMo (Peters et al., 2018). As
with adapters, ELMo exploits the layers other than the top
layer of a pre-trained network. However, this strategy only
reads from the inner layers. In contrast, adapters write to
the inner layers, re-conﬁguring the processing of features
through the entire network.
Fine-tuning
Fine-tuning an entire pre-trained model has
become a popular alternative to features (Dai & Le, 2015;
6 We treat here MNLIm and MNLImm as separate tasks. For
consistency, for all datasets we use accuracy metric and exclude
the regression STS-B task.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
MNLIm
CoLA
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10 11
Last ablated layer
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
First ablated layer
−40
−32
−24
−16
−8
0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10 11
Last ablated layer
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
First ablated layer
−12
−9
−6
−3
0
10-7
10-6
10-5
10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
¾
65
70
75
80
85
90
Validation accuracy (%)
MNLIm
CoLA
Figure 6. Left, Center: Ablation of trained adapters from continuous layer spans. The heatmap shows the relative decrease in validation
accuracy to the fully trained adapted model. The y and x axes indicate the ﬁrst and last layers ablated (inclusive), respectively. The
diagonal cells, highlighted in green, indicate ablation of a single layer’s adapters. The cell in the top-right indicates ablation of all adapters.
Cells in the lower triangle are meaningless, and are set to 0%, the best possible relative performance. Right: Performance of BERTBASE
using adapters with different initial weight magnitudes. The x-axis is the standard deviation of the initialization distribution.
Howard & Ruder, 2018; Radford et al., 2018) In NLP, the
upstream model is usually a neural language model (Ben-
gio et al., 2003). Recent state-of-the-art results on ques-
tion answering (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) and text classi-
ﬁcation (Wang et al., 2018) have been attained by ﬁne-
tuning a Transformer network (Vaswani et al., 2017) with a
Masked Language Model loss (Devlin et al., 2018). Perfor-
mance aside, an advantage of ﬁne-tuning is that it does not
require task-speciﬁc model design, unlike representation-
based transfer. However, vanilla ﬁne-tuning does require a
new set of network weights for every new task.
Multi-task Learning
Multi-task learning (MTL) involves
training on tasks simultaneously. Early work shows that
sharing network parameters across tasks exploits task reg-
ularities, yielding improved performance (Caruana, 1997).
The authors share weights in lower layers of a network,
and use specialized higher layers. Many NLP systems have
exploited MTL. Some examples include: text processing
systems (part of speech, chunking, named entity recogni-
tion, etc.) (Collobert & Weston, 2008), multilingual mod-
els (Huang et al., 2013), semantic parsing (Peng et al., 2017),
machine translation (Johnson et al., 2017), and question an-
swering (Choi et al., 2017). MTL yields a single model
to solve all problems. However, unlike our adapters, MTL
requires simultaneous access to the tasks during training.
Continual Learning
As an alternative to simultaneous
training, continual, or lifelong, learning aims to learn from a
sequence of tasks (Thrun, 1998). However, when re-trained,
deep networks tend to forget how to perform previous tasks;
a challenge termed catastrophic forgetting (McCloskey &
Cohen, 1989; French, 1999). Techniques have been pro-
posed to mitigate forgetting (Kirkpatrick et al., 2017; Zenke
et al., 2017), however, unlike for adapters, the memory is
imperfect. Progressive Networks avoid forgetting by instan-
tiating a new network “column” for each task (Rusu et al.,
2016). However, the number of parameters grows linearly
with the number of tasks, since adapters are very small, our
models scale much more favorably.
Transfer Learning in Vision
Fine-tuning models pre-
trained on ImageNet (Deng et al., 2009) is ubiquitous when
building image recognition models (Yosinski et al., 2014;
Huh et al., 2016). This technique attains state-of-the-art per-
formance on many vision tasks, including classiﬁcation (Ko-
rnblith et al., 2018), ﬁne-grained classifcation (Hermans
et al., 2017), segmentation (Long et al., 2015), and de-
tection (Girshick et al., 2014). In vision, convolutional
adapter modules have been studied (Rebufﬁet al., 2017;
2018; Rosenfeld & Tsotsos, 2018). These works perform
incremental learning in multiple domains by adding small
convolutional layers to a ResNet (He et al., 2016) or VGG
net (Simonyan & Zisserman, 2014). Adapter size is lim-
ited using 1 × 1 convolutions, whilst the original networks
typically use 3 × 3. This yields 11% increase in overall
model size per task. Since the kernel size cannot be further
reduced other weight compression techniques must be used
to attain further savings. Our bottleneck adapters can be
much smaller, and still perform well.
Concurrent work explores similar ideas for BERT (Stickland
& Murray, 2019). The authors introduce Projected Atten-
tion Layers (PALs), small layers with a similar role to our
adapters. The main differences are i) Stickland & Murray
(2019) use a different architecture, and ii) they perform mul-
titask training, jointly ﬁne-tuning BERT on all GLUE tasks.
Sina Semnani (2019) perform an emprical comparison of
our bottleneck Adpaters and PALs on SQuAD v2.0 (Ra-
jpurkar et al., 2018).
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank Andrey Khorlin, Lucas Beyer, Noé
Lutz, and Jeremiah Harmsen for useful comments and dis-
cussions.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
References
Almeida, T. A., Hidalgo, J. M. G., and Yamakami, A. Con-
tributions to the Study of SMS Spam Filtering: New
Collection and Results. In Proceedings of the 11th ACM
Symposium on Document Engineering. ACM, 2011.
Bengio, Y., Ducharme, R., Vincent, P., and Janvin, C. A
neural probabilistic language model. Journal of Machine
Learning Research, 2003.
Bojanowski, P., Grave, E., Joulin, A., and Mikolov, T. En-
riching word vectors with subword information. ACL,
2017.
Brown, P. F., deSouza, P. V., Mercer, R. L., Pietra, V. J. D.,
and Lai, J. C. Class-based n-gram models of natural
language. Computational Linguistics, 1992.
Caruana, R. Multitask learning. Machine Learning, 1997.
Cer, D., Yang, Y., Kong, S.-y., Hua, N., Limtiaco, N., John,
R. S., Constant, N., Guajardo-Cespedes, M., Yuan, S.,
Tar, C., et al. Universal sentence encoder. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.11175, 2018.
Cer, D., Yang, Y., Kong, S.-y., Hua, N., Limtiaco, N.,
St. John, R., Constant, N., Guajardo-Cespedes, M., Yuan,
S., Tar, C., Strope, B., and Kurzweil, R. Universal sen-
tence encoder for english. In EMNLP, 2019.
Chen, T., Lucic, M., Houlsby, N., and Gelly, S. On self
modulation for generative adversarial networks. ICLR,
2019.
Choi, E., Hewlett, D., Uszkoreit, J., Polosukhin, I., Lacoste,
A., and Berant, J. Coarse-to-ﬁne question answering for
long documents. In ACL, 2017.
Collobert, R. and Weston, J. A uniﬁed architecture for
natural language processing: Deep neural networks with
multitask learning. In ICML, 2008.
Conneau, A., Kiela, D., Schwenk, H., Barrault, L., and
Bordes, A. Supervised learning of universal sentence
representations from natural language inference data. In
EMNLP, 2017.
Dai, A. M. and Le, Q. V. Semi-supervised sequence learning.
In NIPS. 2015.
De Vries, H., Strub, F., Mary, J., Larochelle, H., Pietquin, O.,
and Courville, A. C. Modulating early visual processing
by language. In NIPS, 2017.
Deng, J., Dong, W., Socher, R., jia Li, L., Li, K., and Fei-fei,
L. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database.
In In CVPR, 2009.
Devlin, J., Chang, M.-W., Lee, K., and Toutanova, K. Bert:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for lan-
guage understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805,
2018.
French, R. M. Catastrophic forgetting in connectionist net-
works. Trends in cognitive sciences, 1999.
Girshick, R., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., and Malik, J. Rich
feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and se-
mantic segmentation. In CVPR, 2014.
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J. Deep residual
learning for image recognition. In CVPR, 2016.
Hermans, A., Beyer, L., and Leibe, B. In Defense of the
Triplet Loss for Person Re-Identiﬁcation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.07737, 2017.
Howard, J. and Ruder, S. Universal language model ﬁne-
tuning for text classiﬁcation. In ACL, 2018.
Huang, J.-T., Li, J., Yu, D., Deng, L., and Gong, Y. Cross-
language knowledge transfer using multilingual deep neu-
ral network with shared hidden layers. In ICASSP, 2013.
Huh, M., Agrawal, P., and Efros, A. A.
What makes
imagenet good for transfer learning?
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1608.08614, 2016.
Johnson, M., Schuster, M., Le, Q. V., Krikun, M., Wu, Y.,
Chen, Z., Thorat, N., Viégas, F., Wattenberg, M., Corrado,
G., Hughes, M., and Dean, J. Google’s multilingual
neural machine translation system: Enabling zero-shot
translation. ACL, 2017.
Kingma, D. and Ba, J. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. ICLR, 2014.
Kirkpatrick, J., Pascanu, R., Rabinowitz, N., Veness, J., Des-
jardins, G., Rusu, A. A., Milan, K., Quan, J., Ramalho, T.,
Grabska-Barwinska, A., et al. Overcoming catastrophic
forgetting in neural networks. PNAS, 2017.
Kiros, R., Zhu, Y., Salakhutdinov, R. R., Zemel, R., Urtasun,
R., Torralba, A., and Fidler, S. Skip-thought vectors. In
NIPS. 2015.
Kornblith, S., Shlens, J., and Le, Q. V. Do better imagenet
models transfer better? arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.08974,
2018.
Lang, K. Newsweeder: Learning to ﬁlter netnews. In ICML,
1995.
Le, Q. and Mikolov, T. Distributed representations of sen-
tences and documents. In ICML, 2014.
Lichman, M. UCI machine learning repository, 2013.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Long, J., Shelhamer, E., and Darrell, T. Fully convolutional
networks for semantic segmentation. In CVPR, 2015.
McCann, B., Bradbury, J., Xiong, C., and Socher, R.
Learned in translation: Contextualized word vectors. In
Guyon, I., Luxburg, U. V., Bengio, S., Wallach, H., Fer-
gus, R., Vishwanathan, S., and Garnett, R. (eds.), NIPS.
2017.
McCloskey, M. and Cohen, N. J. Catastrophic interference
in connectionist networks: The sequential learning prob-
lem. In Psychology of learning and motivation. 1989.
Mikolov, T., Sutskever, I., Chen, K., Corrado, G. S., and
Dean, J. Distributed representations of words and phrases
and their compositionality. In NIPS. 2013.
Peng, H., Thomson, S., and Smith, N. A. Deep multitask
learning for semantic dependency parsing. In ACL, 2017.
Pennington, J., Socher, R., and Manning, C. Glove: Global
vectors for word representation. In EMNLP, 2014.
Perez, E., Strub, F., de Vries, H., Dumoulin, V., and
Courville, A. C. Film: Visual reasoning with a general
conditioning layer. AAAI, 2018.
Peters, M., Neumann, M., Iyyer, M., Gardner, M., Clark, C.,
Lee, K., and Zettlemoyer, L. Deep contextualized word
representations. In NAACL, 2018.
Radford, A., Narasimhan, K., Salimans, T., and Sutskever,
I.
Improving language understanding by genera-
tive pre-training.
URL https://s3-us-west-2. ama-
zonaws. com/openai-assets/research-covers/language-
unsupervised/language_ understanding_paper. pdf, 2018.
Rajpurkar, P., Zhang, J., Lopyrev, K., and Liang, P. Squad:
100,000+ questions for machine comprehension of text.
In EMNLP, 2016.
Rajpurkar, P., Jia, R., and Liang, P. Know what you don’t
know: Unanswerable questions for squad. In ACL, 2018.
Rebufﬁ, S., Vedaldi, A., and Bilen, H. Efﬁcient parametriza-
tion of multi-domain deep neural networks. In CVPR,
2018.
Rebufﬁ, S.-A., Bilen, H., and Vedaldi, A. Learning multiple
visual domains with residual adapters. In NIPS. 2017.
Rosenfeld, A. and Tsotsos, J. K.
Incremental learning
through deep adaptation. IEEE transactions on pattern
analysis and machine intelligence, 2018.
Rusu, A. A., Rabinowitz, N. C., Desjardins, G., Soyer, H.,
Kirkpatrick, J., Kavukcuoglu, K., Pascanu, R., and Had-
sell, R. Progressive neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1606.04671, 2016.
Simonyan, K. and Zisserman, A. Very deep convolutional
networks for large-scale image recognition. ICLR, 2014.
Sina Semnani, Kaushik Sadagopan, F. T. BERT-A: Fine-
tuning BERT with Adapters and Data Augmentation.
http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/reports/default/15848417.pdf,
2019.
Stickland, A. C. and Murray, I. BERT and PALs: Projected
Attention Layers for Efﬁcient Adaptation in Multi-Task
Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.02671, 2019.
Thrun, S. Learning to learn. chapter Lifelong Learning
Algorithms. 1998.
Turian, J., Ratinov, L., and Bengio, Y. Word representa-
tions: A simple and general method for semi-supervised
learning. In ACL, 2010.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, L. u., and Polosukhin, I. Atten-
tion is all you need. In NIPS. 2017.
Wang, A., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., Levy, O., and
Bowman, S. R. Glue: A multi-task benchmark and analy-
sis platform for natural language understanding. ICLR,
2018.
Wong, C., Houlsby, N., Lu, Y., and Gesmundo, A. Transfer
learning with neural automl. In NeurIPS. 2018.
Yosinski, J., Clune, J., Bengio, Y., and Lipson, H. How trans-
ferable are features in deep neural networks? In Ghahra-
mani, Z., Welling, M., Cortes, C., Lawrence, N. D., and
Weinberger, K. Q. (eds.), NIPS. 2014.
Zenke, F., Poole, B., and Ganguli, S. Continual learning
through synaptic intelligence. ICML, 2017.
Zoph, B. and Le, Q. V. Neural architecture search with
reinforcement learning. In ICLR, 2017.
Supplementary Material for
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
A. Additional Text Classiﬁcation Tasks
Dataset
Train examples
Validation examples
Test examples
Classes
Avg text length
Reference
20 newsgroups
15076
1885
1885
20
1903
(Lang, 1995)
Crowdﬂower airline
11712
1464
1464
3
104
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower corporate messaging
2494
312
312
4
121
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower disasters
8688
1086
1086
2
101
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower economic news relevance
6392
799
800
2
1400
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower emotion
32000
4000
4000
13
73
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower global warming
3380
422
423
2
112
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower political audience
4000
500
500
2
205
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower political bias
4000
500
500
2
205
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower political message
4000
500
500
9
205
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower primary emotions
2019
252
253
18
87
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower progressive opinion
927
116
116
3
102
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower progressive stance
927
116
116
4
102
crowdﬂower.com
Crowdﬂower US economic performance
3961
495
496
2
305
crowdﬂower.com
Customer complaint database
146667
18333
18334
157
1046
catalog.data.gov
News aggregator dataset
338349
42294
42294
4
57
(Lichman, 2013)
SMS spam collection
4459
557
558
2
81
(Almeida et al., 2011)
Table 3. Statistics and references for the additional text classiﬁcation tasks.
Dataset
Epochs (Fine-tune)
Epochs (Adapters)
20 newsgroups
50
50
Crowdﬂower airline
50
20
Crowdﬂower corporate messaging
100
50
Crowdﬂower disasters
50
50
Crowdﬂower economic news relevance
20
20
Crowdﬂower emotion
20
20
Crowdﬂower global warming
100
50
Crowdﬂower political audience
50
20
Crowdﬂower political bias
50
50
Crowdﬂower political message
50
50
Crowdﬂower primary emotions
100
100
Crowdﬂower progressive opinion
100
100
Crowdﬂower progressive stance
100
100
Crowdﬂower US economic performance
100
20
Customer complaint database
20
20
News aggregator dataset
20
20
SMS spam collection
50
20
Table 4. Number of training epochs selected for the additional classiﬁcation tasks.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Parameter
Search Space
1) Input embedding modules
Refer to Table 6
2) Fine-tune input embedding module
{True, False}
3) Lowercase text
{True, False}
4) Remove non alphanumeric text
{True, False}
5) Use convolution
{True, False}
6) Convolution activation
{relu, relu6, leaky relu, swish, sigmoid, tanh}
7) Convolution batch norm
{True, False}
8) Convolution max ngram length
{2, 3}
9) Convolution dropout rate
[0.0, 0.4]
10) Convolution number of ﬁlters
[50, 200]
11) Convolution embedding dropout rate
[0.0, 0.4]
12) Number of hidden layers
{0, 1, 2, 3, 5}
13) Hidden layers size
{64, 128, 256}
14) Hidden layers activation
{relu, relu6, leaky relu, swish, sigmoid, tanh}
15) Hidden layers normalization
{none, batch norm, layer norm}
16) Hidden layers dropout rate
{0.0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5}
17) Deep tower learning rate
{0.001, 0.005, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5}
18) Deep tower regularization weight
{0.0, 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01}
19) Wide tower learning rate
{0.001, 0.005, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5}
20) Wide tower regularization weight
{0.0, 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01}
21) Number of training samples
{1e5, 2e5, 5e5, 1e6, 2e6}
Table 5. The search space of baseline models for the additional text classiﬁcation tasks.
ID
Dataset
Embed
Vocab.
Training
TensorFlow Hub Handles
size
dim.
size
algorithm
Preﬁx: https://tfhub.dev/google/
(tokens)
English-small
7B
50
982k
Lang. model
nnlm-en-dim50-with-normalization/1
English-big
200B
128
999k
Lang. model
nnlm-en-dim128-with-normalization/1
English-wiki-small
4B
250
1M
Skipgram
Wiki-words-250-with-normalization/1
English-wiki-big
4B
500
1M
Skipgram
Wiki-words-500-with-normalization/1
Universal-sentence-encoder
-
512
-
(Cer et al., 2018)
universal-sentence-encoder/2
Table 6. Options for text input embedding modules. These are pre-trained text embedding tables. We provide the handle for the modules
that are publicly distributed via the TensorFlow Hub service (https://www.tensorflow.org/hub).
B. Learning Rate Robustness
We test the robustness of adapters and ﬁne-tuning to the learning rate. We ran experiments with learning rates in the range
[2 · 10−5, 10−3], and selected the best hyperparameters for each method at each learning rate. Figure 7 shows the results.
Parameter-Efﬁcient Transfer Learning for NLP
Dataset
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
20 newsgroups
Universal-sentence-encoder
False
True
True
False
relu6
False
2
0.37
94
0.38
1
128
leaky relu
batch norm
0.5
0.5
0
0.05
0.0001
1000000
Crowdﬂower airline
English-big
False
False
False
True
leaky relu
False
3
0.36
200
0.07
0
128
tanh
layer norm
0.4
0.1
0.001
0.05
0.001
200000
Crowdﬂower corporate messaging
English-big
False
False
True
True
tanh
True
3
0.40
56
0.40
1
64
tanh
batch norm
0.5
0.5
0.001
0.01
0
200000
Crowdﬂower disasters
Universal-sentence-encoder
True
True
False
True
swish
True
3
0.27
52
0.22
0
64
relu
none
0.2
0.005
0.0001
0.005
0.01
500000
Crowdﬂower economic news relevance
Universal-sentence-encoder
True
True
False
False
leaky relu
False
2
0.27
63
0.04
3
128
swish
layer norm
0.2
0.01
0.01
0.001
0
100000
Crowdﬂower emotion
Universal-sentence-encoder
False
True
False
False
relu6
False
3
0.35
132
0.34
1
64
tanh
none
0.05
0.05
0
0.05
0
200000
Crowdﬂower global warming
Universal-sentence-encoder
False
True
True
False
swish
False
3
0.39
200
0.36
1
128
leaky relu
batch norm
0.4
0.05
0
0.001
0.001
1000000
Crowdﬂower political audience
English-small
True
False
True
True
relu
False
3
0.11
98
0.07
0
64
relu
none
0.5
0.05
0.001
0.001
0
100000
Crowdﬂower political bias
English-big
False
True
True
False
swish
False
3
0.12
81
0.30
0
64
relu6
none
0
0.01
0
0.005
0.01
200000
Crowdﬂower political message
Universal-sentence-encoder
False
False
True
False
swish
True
2
0.36
57
0.35
0
64
tanh
none
0.5
0.01
0.001
0.005
0
200000
Crowdﬂower primary emotions
English-big
False
True
True
True
swish
False
3
0.40
191
0.03
0
256
relu6
none
0.5
0.1
0.001
0.05
0
200000
Crowdﬂower progressive opinion
English-big
True
False
True
True
relu6
False
3
0.40
199
0.28
0
128
relu
batch norm
0.3
0.1
0.01
0.005
0.001
200000
Crowdﬂower progressive stance
Universal-sentence-encoder
True
False
True
False
relu
True
3
0.01
195
0.00
2
256
tanh
layer norm
0.4
0.005
0
0.005
0.0001
500000
Crowdﬂower us economic performance
English-big
True
False
True
True
tanh
True
2
0.31
53
0.24
1
256
leaky relu
batch norm
0.3
0.05
0.0001
0.001
0.0001
100000
Customer complaint database
English-big
True
False
False
False
tanh
False
2
0.03
69
0.10
1
256
leaky relu
layer norm
0.1
0.05
0.0001
0.05
0.001
1000000
News aggregator dataset
Universal-sentence-encoder
False
True
True
False
sigmoid
True
2
0.00
156
0.29
3
256
relu
batch norm
0.05
0.05
0
0.5
0.0001
1000000
Sms spam collection
English-wiki-small
True
True
True
True
leaky relu
False
3
0.20
54
0.00
1
128
leaky relu
batch norm
0
0.1
0
0.05
0.01
1000000
Table 7. Search space parameters (see Table 5) for the AutoML baseline models that were selected.
10-4
10-3
Learning rate
70
75
80
85
90
95
f1 score
Adapters
Fine-tune top layers
Figure 7. Best performing models at different learning rates. Error vars indicate the s.e.m. across three random seeds.
