Augmented Neural ODEs
Emilien Dupont
University of Oxford
dupont@stats.ox.ac.uk
Arnaud Doucet
University of Oxford
doucet@stats.ox.ac.uk
Yee Whye Teh
University of Oxford
y.w.teh@stats.ox.ac.uk
Abstract
We show that Neural Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) learn representa-
tions that preserve the topology of the input space and prove that this implies the
existence of functions Neural ODEs cannot represent. To address these limita-
tions, we introduce Augmented Neural ODEs which, in addition to being more
expressive models, are empirically more stable, generalize better and have a lower
computational cost than Neural ODEs.
1
Introduction
The relationship between neural networks and differential equations has been studied in several recent
works (Weinan, 2017; Lu et al., 2017; Haber & Ruthotto, 2017; Ruthotto & Haber, 2018; Chen et al.,
2018). In particular, it has been shown that Residual Networks (He et al., 2016) can be interpreted as
discretized ODEs. Taking the discretization step to zero gives rise to a family of models called Neural
ODEs (Chen et al., 2018). These models can be efﬁciently trained with backpropagation and have
shown great promise on a number of tasks including modeling continuous time data and building
normalizing ﬂows with low computational cost (Chen et al., 2018; Grathwohl et al., 2018).
In this work, we explore some of the consequences of taking this continuous limit and the restrictions
this might create compared with regular neural nets. In particular, we show that there are simple
classes of functions Neural ODEs (NODEs) cannot represent. While it is often possible for NODEs
to approximate these functions in practice, the resulting ﬂows are complex and lead to ODE problems
that are computationally expensive to solve. To overcome these limitations, we introduce Augmented
Neural ODEs (ANODEs) which are a simple extension of NODEs. ANODEs augment the space
on which the ODE is solved, allowing the model to use the additional dimensions to learn more
complex functions using simpler ﬂows (see Fig. 1). In addition to being more expressive models,
ANODEs signiﬁcantly reduce the computational cost of both forward and backward passes of the
model compared with NODEs. Our experiments also show that ANODEs generalize better, achieve
lower losses with fewer parameters and are more stable to train.
Neural ODE
Augmented Neural ODE
Figure 1: Learned ﬂows for a Neural ODE and an Augmented Neural ODE. The ﬂows (shown as lines
with arrows) map input points to linearly separable features for binary classiﬁcation. Augmented
Neural ODEs learn simpler ﬂows that are easier for the ODE solver to compute.
33rd Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2019), Vancouver, Canada.
arXiv:1904.01681v3  [stat.ML]  26 Oct 2019
2
Neural ODEs
NODEs are a family of deep neural network models that can be interpreted as a continuous equivalent
of Residual Networks (ResNets). To see this, consider the transformation of a hidden state from a
layer t to t + 1 in ResNets
ht+1 = ht + ft(ht)
where ht ∈Rd is the hidden state at layer t and ft : Rd →Rd is some differentiable function which
preserves the dimension of ht (typically a CNN). The difference ht+1 −ht can be interpreted as a
discretization of the derivative h′(t) with timestep ∆t = 1. Letting ∆t →0, we see that
lim
∆t→0
ht+∆t −ht
∆t
= dh(t)
dt
= f(h(t), t)
so the hidden state can be parameterized by an ODE. We can then map a data point x into a set of
features φ(x) by solving the Initial Value Problem (IVP)
dh(t)
dt
= f(h(t), t),
h(0) = x
to some time T. The hidden state at time T, i.e. h(T), corresponds to the features learned by the
model. The analogy with ResNets can then be made more explicit. In ResNets, we map an input x to
some output y by a forward pass of the neural network. We then adjust the weights of the network to
match y with some ytrue. In NODEs, we map an input x to an output y by solving an ODE starting
from x. We then adjust the dynamics of the system (encoded by f) such that the ODE transforms x
to a y which is close to ytrue.
ODE
Figure 2: Diagram of Neural
ODE architecture.
ODE ﬂows. We also deﬁne the ﬂow associated to the vector ﬁeld
f(h(t), t) of the ODE. The ﬂow φt : Rd →Rd is deﬁned as the
hidden state at time t, i.e. φt(x) = h(t), when solving the ODE from
the initial condition h(0) = x. The ﬂow measures how the states
of the ODE at a given time t depend on the initial conditions x. We
deﬁne the features of the ODE as φ(x) := φT (x), i.e. the ﬂow at the
ﬁnal time T to which we solve the ODE.
NODEs for regression and classiﬁcation. We can use ODEs to map
input data x ∈Rd to a set of features or representations φ(x) ∈Rd.
However, we are often interested in learning functions from Rd to R,
e.g. for regression or classiﬁcation. To deﬁne a model from Rd to R, we follow the example given
in Lin & Jegelka (2018) for ResNets. We deﬁne the NODE g : Rd →R as g(x) = L(φ(x)) where
L : Rd →R is a linear map and φ : Rd →Rd is the mapping from data to features. As shown in Fig.
2, this is a simple model architecture: an ODE layer, followed by a linear layer.
3
A simple example in 1d
In this section, we introduce a simple function that ODE ﬂows cannot represent, motivating many of
the examples discussed later. Let g1d : R →R be a function such that g1d(−1) = 1 and g1d(1) = −1.
Proposition 1. The ﬂow of an ODE cannot represent g1d(x).
A detailed proof is given in the appendix. The intuition behind the proof is simple; the trajectories
mapping −1 to 1 and 1 to −1 must intersect each other (see Fig. 3). However, ODE trajectories
cannot cross each other, so the ﬂow of an ODE cannot represent g1d(x). This simple observation is at
the core of all the examples provided in this paper and forms the basis for many of the limitations of
NODEs.
Experiments. We verify this behavior experimentally by training an ODE ﬂow on the identity
mapping and on g1d(x). The resulting ﬂows are shown in Fig. 3. As can be seen, the model easily
learns the identity mapping but cannot represent g1d(x). Indeed, since the trajectories cannot cross,
the model maps all input points to zero to minimize the mean squared error.
ResNets vs NODEs. NODEs can be interpreted as continuous equivalents of ResNets, so it is
interesting to consider why ResNets can represent g1d(x) but NODEs cannot. The reason for this is
2
Figure 3: (Top left) Continuous trajectories mapping −1 to 1 (red) and 1 to −1 (blue) must intersect
each other, which is not possible for an ODE. (Top right) Solutions of the ODE are shown in solid
lines and solutions using the Euler method (which corresponds to ResNets) are shown in dashed lines.
As can be seen, the discretization error allows the trajectories to cross. (Bottom) Resulting vector
ﬁelds and trajectories from training on the identity function (left) and g1d(x) (right).
exactly because ResNets are a discretization of the ODE, allowing the trajectories to make discrete
jumps to cross each other (see Fig. 3). Indeed, the error arising when taking discrete steps allows the
ResNet trajectories to cross. In this sense, ResNets can be interpreted as ODE solutions with large
errors, with these errors allowing them to represent more functions.
4
Functions Neural ODEs cannot represent
r1
r2
r3
Figure 4: Diagram
of g(x) for d = 2.
We now introduce classes of functions in arbitrary dimension d which NODEs
cannot represent. Let 0 < r1 < r2 < r3 and let g : Rd →R be a function
such that
g(x) = −1
if ∥x∥≤r1
g(x) = 1
if r2 ≤∥x∥≤r3,
where ∥· ∥is the Euclidean norm. An illustration of this function for d = 2 is
shown in Fig. 4. The function maps all points inside the blue sphere to −1 and
all points in the red annulus to 1.
Proposition 2. Neural ODEs cannot represent g(x).
A proof is given in the appendix. While the proof requires tools from ODE theory and topology, the
intuition behind it is simple. In order for the linear layer to map the blue and red points to −1 and
1 respectively, the features φ(x) for the blue and red points must be linearly separable. Since the
blue region is enclosed by the red region, points in the blue region must cross over the red region to
become linearly separable, requiring the trajectories to intersect, which is not possible. In fact, we
can make more general statements about which features Neural ODEs can learn.
Proposition 3. The feature mapping φ(x) is a homeomorphism, so the features of Neural ODEs
preserve the topology of the input space.
A proof is given in the appendix. This statement is a consequence of the ﬂow of an ODE being a
homeomorphism, i.e. a continuous bijection whose inverse is also continuous; see, e.g., (Younes,
2010). This implies that NODEs can only continuously deform the input space and cannot for
example tear a connected region apart.
Discrete points and continuous regions. It is worthwhile to consider what these results mean in
practice. Indeed, when optimizing NODEs we train on inputs which are sampled from the continuous
regions of the annulus and the sphere (see Fig. 4). The ﬂow could then squeeze through the gaps
3
(a) g(x) in d = 1
(b) g(x) in d = 2
(c) Separable function in d = 2
Figure 5: Comparison of training losses of NODEs and ResNets. Compared to ResNets, NODEs
struggle to ﬁt g(x) both in d = 1 and d = 2. The difference between ResNets and NODEs is less
pronounced for the separable function.
between sampled points making it possible for the NODE to learn a good approximation of the
function. However, ﬂows that need to stretch and squeeze the input space in such a way are likely
to lead to ill-posed ODE problems that are numerically expensive to solve. In order to explore this,
we run a number of experiments (the code to reproduce all experiments in this paper is available at
https://github.com/EmilienDupont/augmented-neural-odes).
4.1
Experiments
We ﬁrst compare the performance of ResNets and NODEs on simple regression tasks. To provide a
baseline, we not only train on g(x) but also on data which can be made linearly separable without
altering the topology of the space (implying that Neural ODEs should be able to easily learn this
function). To ensure a fair comparison, we run large hyperparameter searches for each model and
repeat each experiment 20 times to ensure results are meaningful across initializations (see appendix
for details). We show results for experiments with d = 1 and d = 2 in Fig. 5. For d = 1, the ResNet
easily ﬁts the function, while the NODE cannot approximate g(x). For d = 2, the NODE eventually
learns to approximate g(x), but struggles compared to ResNets. This problem is less severe for the
separable function, presumably because the ﬂow does not need to break apart any regions to linearly
separate them.
4.2
Computational Cost and Number of Function Evaluations
One of the known limitations of NODEs is that, as training progresses and the ﬂow gets increasingly
complex, the number of steps required to solve the ODE increases (Chen et al., 2018; Grathwohl
et al., 2018). As the ODE solver evaluates the function f at each step, this problem is often referred
to as the increasing number of function evaluations (NFE). In Fig. 6, we visualize the evolution of
the feature space during training and the corresponding NFEs. The NODE initially tries to move the
inner sphere out of the annulus by pushing against and stretching the barrier. Eventually, since we are
mapping discrete points and not a continuous region, the ﬂow is able to break apart the annulus to let
the ﬂow through. However, this results in a large increase in NFEs, implying that the ODE stretching
the space to separate the two regions becomes more difﬁcult to solve, making the computation slower.
Figure 6: Evolution of the feature space as training progresses and the corresponding number of
function evaluations required to solve the ODE. As the ODE needs to break apart the annulus, the
number of function evaluations increases.
4
5
Augmented Neural ODEs
Motivated by our theory and experiments, we introduce Augmented Neural ODEs (ANODEs) which
provide a simple solution to the problems we have discussed. We augment the space on which we
learn and solve the ODE from Rd to Rd+p, allowing the ODE ﬂow to lift points into the additional
dimensions to avoid trajectories intersecting each other. Letting a(t) ∈Rp denote a point in the
augmented part of the space, we can formulate the augmented ODE problem as
d
dt

h(t)
a(t)

= f(

h(t)
a(t)

, t),

h(0)
a(0)

=

x
0

i.e. we concatenate every data point x with a vector of zeros and solve the ODE on this augmented
space. We hypothesize that this will also make the learned (augmented) f smoother, giving rise to
simpler ﬂows that the ODE solver can compute in fewer steps. In the following sections, we verify
this behavior experimentally and show both on toy and image datasets that ANODEs achieve lower
losses, better generalization and lower computational cost than regular NODEs.
5.1
Experiments
We ﬁrst compare the performance of NODEs and ANODEs on toy datasets. As in previous experi-
ments, we run large hyperparameter searches to ensure a fair comparison. As can be seen on Fig. 7,
when trained on g(x) in different dimensions, ANODEs are able to ﬁt the functions NODEs cannot
and learn much faster than NODEs despite the increased dimension of the input. The corresponding
ﬂows learned by the model are shown in Fig. 7. As can be seen, in d = 1, the ANODE moves into a
higher dimension to linearly separate the points, resulting in a simple, nearly linear ﬂow. Similarly,
in d = 2, the NODE learns a complicated ﬂow whereas ANODEs simply lift out the inner circle to
separate the data. This effect can also be visualized as the features evolve during training (see Fig. 8).
Computational cost and number of function evaluations. As ANODEs learn simpler ﬂows, they
would presumably require fewer iterations to compute. To test this, we measure the NFEs for NODEs
and ANODEs when training on g(x). As can be seen in Fig. 8, the NFEs required by ANODEs
hardly increases during training while it nearly doubles for NODEs. We obtain similar results when
training NODEs and ANODEs on image datasets (see Section 5.2).
Generalization. As ANODEs learn simpler ﬂows, we also hypothesize that they generalize better
to unseen data than NODEs. To test this, we ﬁrst visualize to which value each point in the input
space gets mapped by a NODE and an ANODE that have been optimized to approximately zero
training loss. As can be seen in Fig. 9, since NODEs can only continuously deform the input space,
the learned ﬂow must squeeze the points in the inner circle through the annulus, leading to poor
Inputs
Flow
Features
ANODE 1D
NODE 2D
ANODE 2D
Figure 7: (Left) Loss plots for NODEs and ANODEs trained on g(x) in d = 1 (top) and d = 2
(bottom). ANODEs easily approximate the functions and are consistently faster than NODEs. (Right)
Flows learned by NODEs and ANODEs. ANODEs learn simple nearly linear ﬂows while NODEs
learn complex ﬂows that are difﬁcult for the ODE solver to compute.
5
Figure 8: (Left) Evolution of features during training for ANODEs. The top left tile shows the feature
space for a randomly initialized ANODE and the bottom right tile shows the features after training.
(Right) Evolution of the NFEs during training for NODEs and ANODEs trained on g(x) in d = 1.
generalization. ANODEs, in contrast, map all points in the input space to reasonable values. As
a further test, we can also create a validation set by removing random slices of the input space
(e.g. removing all points whose angle is in [0, π
5 ]) from the training set. We train both NODEs and
ANODEs on the training set and plot the evolution of the validation loss during training in Fig. 9.
While there is a large generalization gap for NODEs, presumably because the ﬂow moves through
the gaps in the training set, ANODEs generalize much better and achieve near zero validation loss.
As we have shown, experimentally we obtain lower losses, simpler ﬂows, better generalization and
ODEs requiring fewer NFEs to solve when using ANODEs. We now test this behavior on image data
by training models on MNIST, CIFAR10, SVHN and 200 classes of 64 × 64 ImageNet.
5.2
Image Experiments
We perform experiments on image datasets using convolutional architectures for f(h(t), t). As the
input x is an image, the hidden state h(t) is now in Rc×h×w where c is the number of channels
and h and w are the height and width respectively. In the case where h(t) ∈Rd we augmented the
space as h(t) ∈Rd+p. For images we augment the space as Rc×h×w →R(c+p)×h×w, i.e. we add p
channels of zeros to the input image. While there are other ways to augment the space, we found that
increasing the number of channels works well in practice and use this method for all experiments.
Full training and architecture details can be found in the appendix.
Results for models trained with and without augmentation are shown in Fig. 10. As can be seen,
ANODEs train faster and obtain lower losses at a smaller computational cost than NODEs. On
MNIST for example, ANODEs with 10 augmented channels achieve the same loss in roughly 10
times fewer iterations (for CIFAR10, ANODEs are roughly 5 times faster). Perhaps most interestingly,
we can plot the NFEs against the loss to understand roughly how complex a ﬂow (i.e. how many
NFEs) are required to model a function that achieves a certain loss. For example, to compute a
function which obtains a loss of 0.8 on CIFAR10, a NODE requires approximately 100 function
evaluations whereas ANODEs only require 50. Similar observations can be made for other datasets,
implying that ANODEs can model equally rich functions at half the computational cost of NODEs.
Neural ODE
Augmented Neural ODE
Figure 9: (Left) Plots of how NODEs and ANODEs map points in the input space to different outputs
(both models achieve approximately the same zero training loss). As can be seen, the ANODE
generalizes better. (Middle) Training and validation losses for NODE. (Right) Training and validation
losses for ANODE.
6
Loss
NFEs
NFEs vs Loss 
Figure 10: Training losses, NFEs and NFEs vs Loss for various augmented models on MNIST (top
row) and CIFAR10 (bottom row). Note that p indicates the size of the augmented dimension, so
p = 0 corresponds to a regular NODE model. Further results on SVHN and 64 × 64 ImageNet can
be found in the appendix.
Parameter efﬁciency. As we augment the dimension of the ODEs, we also increase the number of
parameters of the models, so it may be that the improved performance of ANODEs is due to the
higher number of parameters. To test this, we train a NODE and an ANODE with the same number of
parameters on MNIST (84k weights), CIFAR10 (172k weights), SVHN (172k weights) and 64 × 64
ImageNet (366k weights). We ﬁnd that the augmented model achieves signiﬁcantly lower losses
with fewer NFEs than the NODE, suggesting that ANODEs use the parameters more efﬁciently than
NODEs (see appendix for details and results). For all subsequent experiments, we use NODEs and
ANODEs with the same number of parameters.
NFEs and weight decay. The increased computational cost during training is a known issue with
NODEs and has previously been tackled by adding weight decay (Grathwohl et al., 2018). As
ANODEs also achieve lower computational cost, we test models with various combinations of weight
decay and augmentation (see appendix for detailed results). We ﬁnd that ANODEs without weight
decay signiﬁcantly outperform NODEs with weight decay. However, using both weight decay and
augmentation achieves the lowest NFEs at the cost of a slightly higher loss. Combining augmentation
with weight decay may therefore be a fruitful avenue for further scaling NODE models.
Accuracy. Fig. 11 shows training accuracy against NFEs for ANODEs and NODEs on MNIST,
CIFAR10 and SVHN. As expected, ANODEs achieve higher accuracy at a lower computational cost
than NODEs (similar results hold for ImageNet as shown in the appendix).
Generalization for images. As noted in Section 5.1, ANODEs generalize better than NODEs
on simple datasets, presumably because they learn simpler and smoother ﬂows. We also test this
behavior on image datasets by training models with and without augmentation on the training set and
calculating the loss and accuracy on the test set. As can be seen in Fig. 12 and Table 1, for MNIST,
CIFAR10, and SVHN, ANODEs achieve lower test losses and higher test accuracies than NODEs,
suggesting that ANODEs also generalize better on image datasets.
Figure 11: Accuracy vs NFEs for MNIST (left), CIFAR10 (middle) and SVHN (right).
7
Figure 12: Test accuracy (left) and loss (right) for MNIST (top) and CIFAR10 (bottom).
NODE
ANODE
MNIST
96.4% ± 0.5
98.2% ± 0.1
CIFAR10
53.7% ± 0.2
60.6% ± 0.4
SVHN
81.0% ± 0.6
83.5% ± 0.5
Table 1: Test accuracies and their standard deviation over 5 runs on various image datasets.
Stability. While experimenting with NODEs we found that the NFEs could often become pro-
hibitively large (in excess of 1000, which roughly corresponds to a 1000-layer ResNet). For example,
when overﬁtting a NODE on MNIST, the learned ﬂow can become so ill posed the ODE solver
requires timesteps that are smaller than machine precision resulting in underﬂow. Further, this
complex ﬂow often leads to unstable training resulting in exploding losses. As shown in Fig. 13,
augmentation consistently leads to stable training and fewer NFEs, even when overﬁtting.
Scaling. To measure how well the models scale to larger datasets, we train NODEs and ANODEs on
200 classes of 64 × 64 ImageNet. As can be seen in Fig. 13, ANODEs scale better, achieve lower
losses and train almost 10 times faster than NODEs.
5.3
Relation to other models
In this section, we discuss how ANODEs compare to other relevant models.
Neural ODEs. Different architectures exist for training NODEs on images. Chen et al. (2018)
for example, downsample MNIST twice with regular convolutions before applying a sequence of
repeated ODE ﬂows. These initial convolutions can be understood as implicitly augmenting the
space (since they increase the number of channels). While combining NODEs with convolutions
alleviates the representational limitations of NODEs, it also results in most of the attractive properties
of NODEs being lost (including invertibility, ability to query state at any timestep, cheap Jacobian
computations in normalizing ﬂows and reduced number of parameters). In contrast, ANODEs
overcome the representational weaknesses of NODEs while maintaining all their attractive properties.
Figure 13: Instabilities in the loss (left) and NFEs (right) when ﬁtting NODEs to MNIST. In the latter
stages of training, NODEs can become unstable and the loss and NFEs become erratic.
8
Figure 14: Accuracy (left) and loss (right) on 64 × 64 ImageNet for NODEs and ANODEs.
ResNets. Since ResNets can be interpreted as discretized equivalents of NODEs, it is interesting
to consider how augmenting the space could affect the training of ResNets. Indeed, most ResNet
architectures (He et al., 2016; Xie et al., 2017; Zagoruyko & Komodakis, 2016) already employ a
form of augmentation by performing convolutions with a large number of ﬁlters before applying
residual blocks. This effectively corresponds to augmenting the space by the number of ﬁlters minus
the number of channels in the original image. Further, Behrmann et al. (2018) and Ardizzone et al.
(2018) also augment the input with zeros to build invertible ResNets and transformations. Our
ﬁndings in the continuous case are consistent with theirs: augmenting the input with zeros improves
performance. However, an important consequence of using augmentation for NODEs is the reduced
computational cost, which does not have an analogy in ResNets.
Normalizing Flows. Similarly to NODEs, several models used for normalizing ﬂows, such as
RealNVP (Dinh et al., 2016), MAF (Papamakarios et al., 2017) and Glow (Kingma & Dhariwal,
2018) are homeomorphisms. The results presented in this paper may therefore also be relevant in this
context. In particular, using augmentation for discrete normalizing ﬂows may improve performance
and is an interesting avenue for future research.
6
Scope and Future Work
In this section, we describe some limitations of ANODEs, outline potential ways they may be
overcome and list ideas for future work. First, while ANODEs are faster than NODEs, they are
still slower than ResNets. Second, augmentation changes the dimension of the input space which,
depending on the application, may not be desirable. Finally, the augmented dimension can be seen as
an extra hyperparameter to tune. While the model is robust for a range of augmented dimensions, we
observed that for excessively large augmented dimensions (e.g. adding 100 channels to MNIST), the
model tends to perform worse with higher losses and NFEs. We believe the ideas presented in this
paper could create interesting avenues for future research, including:
Overcoming the limitations of NODEs. In order to allow trajectories to travel across each other, we
augmented the space on which the ODE is solved. However, there may be other ways to achieve this,
such as learning an augmentation (as in ResNets) or adding noise (similarly to Wang et al. (2018)).
Augmentation for Normalizing Flows. The NFEs typically becomes prohibitively large when
training continuous normalizing ﬂow (CNF) models (Grathwohl et al., 2018). Adding augmentation
to CNFs could likely mitigate this effect and we plan to explore this in future work.
Improved understanding of augmentation. It would be useful to provide more theoretical analysis
for how and why augmentation improves the training of NODEs and to explore how this could guide
our choice of architectures and optimizers for NODEs.
7
Conclusion
In this paper, we highlighted and analysed some of the limitations of Neural ODEs. We proved that
there are classes of functions NODEs cannot represent and, in particular, that NODEs only learn
features that are homeomorphic to the input space. We showed through experiments that this lead to
slower learning and complex ﬂows which are expensive to compute. To mitigate these issues, we
proposed Augmented Neural ODEs which learn the ﬂow from input to features in an augmented space.
Our experiments show that ANODEs can model more complex functions using simpler ﬂows while
achieving lower losses, reducing computational cost, and improving stability and generalization.
9
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Anthony Caterini, Daniel Paulin, Abraham Ng, Joost Van Amersfoort and
Hyunjik Kim for helpful discussions and feedback. Emilien gratefully acknowledges his PhD funding
from Google DeepMind. Arnaud Doucet acknowledges support of the UK Defence Science and
Technology Laboratory (Dstl) and Engineering and Physical Research Council (EPSRC) under grant
EP/R013616/1. This is part of the collaboration between US DOD, UK MOD and UK EPSRC under
the Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative. Yee Whye Teh’s research leading to these results
has received funding from the European Research Council under the European Union’s Seventh
Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) ERC grant agreement no. 617071.
References
Shair Ahmad and Antonio Ambrosetti. A Textbook on Ordinary Differential Equations, volume 88.
Springer, 2015.
Lynton Ardizzone, Jakob Kruse, Sebastian Wirkert, Daniel Rahner, Eric W Pellegrini, Ralf S Klessen,
Lena Maier-Hein, Carsten Rother, and Ullrich Köthe. Analyzing inverse problems with invertible
neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.04730, 2018.
Mark Anthony Armstrong. Basic Topology. Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.
Jens Behrmann, David Duvenaud, and Jörn-Henrik Jacobsen. Invertible residual networks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1811.00995, 2018.
Tian Qi Chen, Yulia Rubanova, Jesse Bettencourt, and David Duvenaud. Neural ordinary differential
equations. In 32nd Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018.
Earl A Coddington and Norman Levinson. Theory of Ordinary Differential Equations. Tata McGraw-
Hill Education, 1955.
Laurent Dinh, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, and Samy Bengio. Density estimation using real nvp. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1605.08803, 2016.
Will Grathwohl, Ricky TQ Chen, Jesse Betterncourt, Ilya Sutskever, and David Duvenaud. Ffjord:
Free-form continuous dynamics for scalable reversible generative models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.01367, 2018.
Eldad Haber and Lars Ruthotto. Stable architectures for deep neural networks. Inverse Problems, 34
(1):014004, 2017.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image
recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pp. 770–778, 2016.
Ralph Howard. The Gronwall inequality. 1998. URL http://people.math.sc.edu/howard/
Notes/gronwall.pdf.
Durk P Kingma and Prafulla Dhariwal. Glow: Generative ﬂow with invertible 1x1 convolutions. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 10215–10224, 2018.
Hongzhou Lin and Stefanie Jegelka. Resnet with one-neuron hidden layers is a universal approximator.
In 32nd Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018.
Yiping Lu, Aoxiao Zhong, Quanzheng Li, and Bin Dong. Beyond ﬁnite layer neural networks:
Bridging deep architectures and numerical differential equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.10121,
2017.
George Papamakarios, Theo Pavlakou, and Iain Murray. Masked autoregressive ﬂow for density
estimation. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 2338–2347, 2017.
Fabian Pedregosa, Gaël Varoquaux, Alexandre Gramfort, Vincent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier
Grisel, Mathieu Blondel, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vincent Dubourg, et al. Scikit-learn:
Machine learning in python. Journal of machine learning research, 12(Oct):2825–2830, 2011.
10
Lars Ruthotto and Eldad Haber. Deep neural networks motivated by partial differential equations.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.04272, 2018.
Bao Wang, Binjie Yuan, Zuoqiang Shi, and Stanley J Osher. Enresnet: Resnet ensemble via the
Feynman-Kac formalism. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.10745, 2018.
E Weinan. A proposal on machine learning via dynamical systems. Communications in Mathematics
and Statistics, 5(1):1–11, 2017.
Saining Xie, Ross Girshick, Piotr Dollár, Zhuowen Tu, and Kaiming He. Aggregated residual
transformations for deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 1492–1500, 2017.
Laurent Younes. Shapes and Diffeomorphisms, volume 171. Springer Science & Business Media,
2010.
Sergey Zagoruyko and Nikos Komodakis. Wide residual networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.07146,
2016.
11
A
Proofs
Throughout this section, we refer to the following Initial Value Problem (IVP)



dh(t)
dt
= f(h(t), t)
h(0) = x
(1)
where h(t) ∈Rd and f : Rd × R →Rd is continuous in t and globally Lipschitz continuous in h, i.e.
there is a constant C ≥0 such that
∥f(h2(t), t) −f(h1(t), t)∥≤C∥h2(t) −h1(t)∥
for all t ∈R. These conditions imply the solutions of the IVP exist and are unique for all t (see e.g.
Theorem 2.4.5 in Ahmad & Ambrosetti (2015)).
We deﬁne the ﬂow φt(x) associated to the vector ﬁeld f(h(t), t) as the solution at time t of the
ODE starting from the initial condition h(0) = x. The ﬂow measures how the solutions of the ODE
depend on the initial conditions. Following the analogy between ResNets and NODEs, we deﬁne
the features φ(x) output by the ODE as the ﬂow at the ﬁnal time T to which we solve the ODE,
i.e. φ(x) = φT (x). Finally, we deﬁne the NODE model as the composition of the feature function
φ : Rd →Rd and a linear map L : Rd →R.
For clarity and completeness, we include proofs of all statements. Whenever propositions or theorems
are already known we include references to proofs.
A.1
ODE trajectories do not intersect
This result is well known and proofs can be found in standard ODE textbooks (e.g. Proposition C.6
in Younes (2010)).
Proposition. Let h1(t) and h2(t) be two solutions of the ODE (1) with different initial conditions,
i.e. h1(0) ̸= h2(0). Then, for all t ∈(0, T], h1(t) ̸= h2(t). Informally, this proposition states that
ODE trajectories cannot intersect.
Proof. Suppose there exists some ˜t ∈(0, T] where h1(˜t) = h2(˜t). Deﬁne a new IVP with initial
condition h(˜t) = h1(˜t) = h2(˜t) and solve it backwards to time t = 0. As the backwards IVP also
satisﬁes the existence and uniqueness conditions, its solution h(t) is unique implying that its value at
t = 0 is unique. This contradicts the assumption that h1(0) ̸= h2(0) and so there is no ˜t ∈(0, T]
such that h1(˜t) = h2(˜t).
A.2
Gronwall’s Lemma
We will make use of Gronwall’s Lemma and state it here for completeness. We follow the statement
as given in Howard (1998):
Theorem. Let U ⊂Rd be an open set. Let f : U × [0, T] →Rd be a continuous function and let
h1, h2 : [0, T] →U satisfy the IVPs:
dh1(t)
dt
= f(h1(t), t),
h1(0) = x1
dh2(t)
dt
= f(h2(t), t),
h2(0) = x2
Assume there is a constant C ≥0 such that
∥f(h2(t), t) −f(h1(t), t)∥≤C∥h2(t) −h1(t)∥
Then for t ∈[0, T]
∥h2(t) −h1(t)∥≤eCt∥x2 −x1∥
Proof. See e.g. Howard (1998) or Theorem 3.8 in Younes (2010).
12
B
Proof for 1d example
Let g1d : R →R be a function such that
g1d(−1) = 1
g1d(1) = −1
Proposition 1. The ﬂow of an ODE cannot represent g1d(x).
Proof. The proof follows two steps:
(a) Continuous trajectories mapping −1 to 1 and 1 to −1 must cross each other.
(b) Trajectories of ODEs cannot cross each other.
This is a contradiction and implies the proposition. Part (b) was proved in Section A.1. All there is
left to do is to prove part (a).
Suppose there exists an f such that there are trajectories h1(t) and h2(t) where
h1(0) = −1
h1(T) = 1
h2(0) = 1
h2(T) = −1
As h1(t) and h2(t) are solutions of the IVP, they are continuous; see, e.g., Coddington & Levinson
(1955). Deﬁne the function h(t) = h2(t) −h1(t). Since both h1(t) and h2(t) are continuous, so is
h(t). Now h(0) = 2 and h(T) = −2, so by the Intermediate Value Theorem there is some ˜t ∈[0, T]
where h(˜t) = 0, i.e. where h1(˜t) = h2(˜t). So h1(t) and h2(t) intersect.
C
Proof that φt(x) is a homeomorphism
Since the following theorem plays a central part in the paper, we include a proof of it here for
completeness. For a more general proof, we refer the reader to Theorem C.7 in Younes (2010).
Theorem. For all t ∈[0, T], φt : Rd →Rd is a homeomorphism.
Proof. In order to prove that φt is a homemorphism, we need to show that
(a) φt is continuous
(b) φt is a bijection
(c) φ−1
t
is continuous
Part (a). Consider two initial conditions of the ODE system, h1(0) = x and h2(0) = x + δ where δ
is some perturbation. By Gronwall’s Lemma, we have
∥h2(t) −h1(t)∥≤eCt∥h1(0) −h2(0)∥= eCt∥δ∥
Rewriting in terms of φt(x), we have
∥φt(x + δ) −φt(x)∥≤eCt∥δ∥
Letting δ →0, this implies that φt(x) is continuous in x for all t ∈[0, T].
Part (b). Suppose there exists initial conditions x1 ̸= x2 such that φt(x1) = φt(x2). We deﬁne the
IVP starting from φt(x1) and solve it backwards to time t = 0. The solution of the IVP is unique, so
it cannot map φt(x1) back to both x1 and x2. So for each x1 ̸= x2, we must have φt(x1) ̸= φt(x2),
that is the map between x and φt(x) is one-to-one.
Part (c). To check that the inverse φ−1
t
is continuous, we note that we can set the initial condition
to h(t) = φt(x) and solve the IVP backwards in time (as it satisﬁes the existence and uniqueness
conditions). The same reasoning as part (a) then applies.
Therefore φt is a continuous bijection and its inverse is continuous, i.e. it is a homeomorphism.
13
r1
r2
r3
B
A
(a)
(b)
Figure 15: (a) Diagram of g(x) in 2d. (b) An example of the map φ(x) from input data to features
necessary to represent g(x) (which NODEs cannot learn).
Corollary. Features of Neural ODEs preserve the topology of the input space.
Proof. Since φt(x) is a homeomorphism, so is φ(x) = φT (x). Homeomorphims preserve topological
properties, so Neural ODEs can only learn features which have the same topology as the input space.
This corollary implies for example that NODEs cannot break apart or create holes in a connected
region of the input space.
D
Proof that there are classes functions NODEs cannot represent
This section presents a proof of the main claim of the paper.
Let 0 < r1 < r2 < r3 and let g : Rd →R be a function such that
g(x) = −1
if ∥x∥≤r1
g(x) = 1
if r2 ≤∥x∥≤r3
We denote the sphere where g(x) = −1 by A = {x : ∥x∥≤r1} and the annulus where g(x) = 1 by
B = {x : r2 ≤∥x∥≤r3} (see Fig. 15). For a set S, we write φ(S) = {y : y = φ(x), x ∈S} to
denote the feature transformation of the set.
Proposition 2. Neural ODEs cannot represent g(x).
Proof. For a NODE to map points in A to −1 and points in B to +1, the linear map L must map the
features in φ(A) to −1 and the features in φ(B) to +1, which implies that φ(A) and φ(B) must be
linearly separable. We now show that this is not possible if φ is a homeomorphism.
Deﬁne a disk D ⊂Rd by D = {x ∈Rd : ∥x∥≤r2} with boundary ∂D = {x ∈Rd : ∥x∥= r2}
and interior int(D) = {x ∈Rd : ∥x∥< r2}. Now A ⊂int(D), A ∩∂D = ∅and ∂D ⊂B, that is
all points in ∂D should be mapped to +1 (i.e. they are in B) and a subset of points in int(D) should
be mapped to −1 (i.e. they are in A). So if φ(int(D)) and φ(∂D) are not linearly separable, then
neither are φ(A) or φ(B).
The feature transformation φ is a homeomorphism, so φ(int(D)) = int(φ(D)) and φ(∂D) =
∂(φ(D)), i.e. points on the boundary get mapped to points on the boundary and points in the interior
to points in the interior (Armstrong, 2013). So it remains to show that int(φ(D)) and ∂(φ(D)) cannot
be linearly separated. For notational convenience, we will write D′ = φ(D).
Suppose all points in ∂D′ lie above some hyperplane, i.e. suppose there exists a linear function
L(x) = wT x and a constant C such that L(x) > C for all x ∈∂D′. If int(D′) were linearly
separable from ∂D′ then L(x) < C for all x ∈int(D′). We now show that this is not the case.
Since D′ is a connected subset of Rd (since D is connected and φ is a homeomorphism), every point
x ∈int(D′) can be written as a convex combination of points on the boundary ∂D′ (to see this
consider a line passing through a point x in the interior and its intersection with the boundary). So if
x ∈int(D′), then
x = λx1 + (1 −λ)x2
14
for some x1, x2 ∈∂D′ and 0 < λ < 1. Now,
L(x) = wT x
= wT (λx1 + (1 −λ)x2)
= λwT x1 + (1 −λ)wT x2
≥λC + (1 −λ)C
= C
so all points in the interior are on the same side of the hyperplane as points on the boundary, that is
the interior and the boundary are not linearly separable. This implies that the set of features φ(A)
and φ(B) cannot be linearly separated and so that NODEs cannot represent g(x).
r2
D
∂D
(a)
∂D
∂D’
D
D’
Φ
(b)
ℒ(x) = C
x 
x2 
x1 
(c)
Figure 16: (a) Diagram of the disk D and its boundary. The boundary is equal to the inner boundary
of B. (b) An example of how φ transforms the disk. (c) The boundary of the transformed set is above
the hyperplane, which implies that all points on the interior must also be above the hyperplane.
E
Modeling NODEs and f(h(t), t)
In this section, we describe how to choose and model f. We ﬁrst note that f can be parameterized by
any standard neural net architecture, including ones with activation functions that are not everywhere
differentiable such as ReLU. Existence and uniqueness of solutions to the ODE are still guaranteed
and all results in this paper hold under these conditions.
The function f(h(t), t) depends on both the time t and the hidden state h(t). Following the archi-
tecture used by Chen et al. (2018), we model f as a CNN or an MLP with weights that are not a
function of time, and instead encode the time dependency by passing a concatenated tensor (h(t), t)
as input to the neural network. The architectures of the CNNs and MLPs we used are described in the
following section.
F
Experimental Details
We used the ODE solvers in the torchdiffeq1 library for all experiments (Chen et al., 2018).
We used the adaptive Dormand-Prince (Runge-Kutta 45) solver with an absolute and relative error
tolerance of 1e-3. The code to reproduce all results in this paper can be found at https://github.
com/EmilienDupont/augmented-neural-odes.
F.1
Architecture
Throughout all our experiments we used the ReLU activation function. We also experimented with
softplus but found that this generally slowed down learning.
1https://github.com/rtqichen/torchdiffeq
15
F.1.1
Toy datasets
We parameterized f by an MLP with the following structure and dimensions
dinput + 1 →dhidden →ReLU →dhidden →ReLU →dinput
where the additional dimension on the input layer is because we append the time t as an input.
Choices for dinput and dhidden are given for each model in the following section.
F.1.2
Image datasets
We parameterized f by a convolutional block with the following structure and dimensions
• 1 × 1 conv, k ﬁlters, 0 padding.
• 3 × 3 conv, k ﬁlters, 1 padding.
• 1 × 1 conv, c ﬁlters, 0 padding.
where k is speciﬁed for each architecture in the following sections and c is the number of channels (1
for MNIST and 3 for CIFAR10, SVHN and ImageNet). We append the time t as an extra channel on
the feature map before each convolution.
F.2
Hyperparameters
For the toy datasets, each experiment was repeated 20 times. The resulting plots show the mean and
standard deviation for these runs.
F.2.1
Hyperparameter search
To ensure a fair comparison between models, we ran a large hyperparameter search for each model
and chose the hyperparameters with the lowest loss to generate the plots in the paper. We used
skorch and scikit-learn (Pedregosa et al., 2011) to run the hyperparameter searches and ran 3
cross validations for each setting.
For d = 1 and d = 2 we trained on g(x) (i.e. on the dataset of concentric spheres), with 1000 points
in the inner sphere and 2000 points in the outer annulus. We used r1 = 0.5, r2 = 1.0 and r3 = 1.5
and trained for 50 epochs. The space of hyperparameters we searched were:
• Batch size: 64, 128
• Learning rate: 1e-3, 5-4, 1e-4
• Hidden dimension: 16, 32
• Number of layers (for ResNet): 2, 5, 10
• Number of augmented dimensions (for ANODE): 1, 2, 5
The best parameters for ResNets:
• d = 1: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32, 5 layers
• d = 2: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32, 5 layers
The best parameters for Neural ODEs:
• d = 1: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32
• d = 2: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32
The best parameters for Augmented Neural ODEs:
• d = 1: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32, augmented dimension 5
• d = 2: Batch size 64, learning rate 1e-3, hidden dimension 32, augmented dimension 5
16
F.2.2
Image experiments
For all image datasets, we used k = 64 ﬁlters and repeated each experiment 5 times. For models with
approximately the same number of parameters we used, for MNIST
• NODE: 92 ﬁlters →84,395 parameters
• ANODE: 64 ﬁlters, augmented dimension 5 →84,816 parameters
and for CIFAR10 and SVHN
• NODE: 125 ﬁlters →172,358 parameters
• ANODE: 64 ﬁlters, augmented dimension 10 →171,799 parameters
For the ImageNet experiments, we used the Tiny ImageNet dataset consisting of 200 classes of
64 × 64 images. We also repeated each experiment 5 times. We used models with approximately the
same number of parameters, speciﬁcally:
• NODE: 164 ﬁlters →366,269 parameters
• ANODE: 64 ﬁlters, augmented dimension 5 →365,714 parameters
For all image experiments, we used a batch size of 256.
G
Additional Results
In this section, we show additional results which were not included in the main paper.
G.1
Feature space evolution
We visualize the evolution of the feature space when training a NODE on g(x) and on a separable
function in Fig. 17. As can be seen, the NODE struggles to push the inner sphere out of the annulus
for g(x). On the other hand, when training on the separable dataset, the NODE easily transforms the
input space.
G.2
Parameter efﬁciency
As noted in the main paper, when we augment the dimension of the ODEs, we also increase the
number of parameters of the model. We test whether the improved performance of ANODEs is
due to the higher number of parameters by training NODEs and ANODEs with the same number
of parameters on MNIST and CIFAR10. As can be seen in Fig. 18, the augmented model achieves
lower losses with fewer NFEs than a NODE with the same number of parameters, suggesting that
ANODEs use the parameters more efﬁciently than NODEs.
G.3
Augmentation and weight decay
Grathwohl et al. (2018) train NODE models with weight decay to reduce the NFEs. As ANODEs
also achieve low NFEs, we test models with various combinations of weight decay and augmentation
and show results in Fig. 19. We ﬁnd that ANODEs signiﬁcantly outperform NODEs even when using
weight decay. However, using both weight decay and augmentation achieves the lowest NFEs at the
cost of a slightly higher loss.
G.4
Comparing ResNets, NODEs and ANODEs
In the main paper, we compare the training time of ResNets with NODEs and the training time of
NODEs with ANODEs. In Fig. 20, we compare all three methods in a single plot.
G.5
Training accuracy
We include additional plots of training accuracy in Fig. 21.
17
Figure 17: Evolution of the feature space during training. The leftmost tile shows the feature space
for a randomly initialized NODE and the rightmost tile shows the feature space after training. The
top row shows a model trained on g(x) and the bottow row a model trained on a separable function.
Loss
NFEs vs Loss 
MNIST
84k params
CIFAR10
172k params
Figure 18: Losses, NFEs and NFEs vs Loss for various augmented models on MNIST and CIFAR10.
Note that p indicates the size of the augmented dimension, so p = 0 corresponds to a regular NODE
model.
G.6
Additional test results for SVHN
The test loss and accuracy on SVHN as training progresses are shown in Fig. 22.
G.7
Additional train results for SVHN
Additional results for SVHN which were not included in the main paper are shown in Fig. 23.
G.8
Additional results for ImageNet
Additional results for ImageNet which were not included in the main paper are shown in Fig. 24.
G.9
Examples of ﬂows
We include further plots of ﬂows learned by NODEs and ANODEs in Fig. 25. As can be seen,
ANODEs consistently learn simple, nearly linear ﬂows, while NODEs require more complicated
ﬂows to separate the data.
18
Figure 19: Losses and NFEs for models with and without weight decay. ANODEs perform better
than NODEs with weight decay but adding weight decay to ANODEs also reduces their NFEs at the
cost of a slightly higher loss.
Figure 20: Losses for various models trained on g(x) in d = 2. As can be seen, ANODEs are slightly
slower than ResNets, but faster than NODEs.
Figure 21: Training accuracy for MNIST (left), CIFAR10 (middle) and SVHN (right).
Figure 22: Test loss and accuracy during training for SVHN.
19
Figure 23: Loss, NFEs, loss vs NFEs during training for NODEs and ANODEs on SVHN.
Figure 24: NFEs, loss vs NFEs and accuracy vs NFEs during training for NODEs and ANODEs on
64 × 64 ImageNet.
Figure 25: Flows learned by NODEs and ANODEs trained on various datasets. The top row shows
results for NODEs, the bottom row shows results for ANODEs. The models in the left column were
trained on separable data, whereas the models in the right column were trained on g(x). NODEs
learn more complex ﬂows, particularly on data which is not separable.
20
