Informer: Beyond Efﬁcient Transformer for Long Sequence
Time-Series Forecasting
Haoyi Zhou, 1 Shanghang Zhang, 2 Jieqi Peng, 1 Shuai Zhang, 1 Jianxin Li, 1
Hui Xiong, 3 Wancai Zhang 4
1 Beihang University 2 UC Berkeley 3 Rutgers University 4 SEDD Company
{zhouhy, pengjq, zhangs, lijx}@act.buaa.edu.cn, shz@eecs.berkeley.edu, {xionghui,zhangwancaibuaa}@gmail.com
Abstract
Many real-world applications require the prediction of long
sequence time-series, such as electricity consumption plan-
ning. Long sequence time-series forecasting (LSTF) demands
a high prediction capacity of the model, which is the ability
to capture precise long-range dependency coupling between
output and input efﬁciently. Recent studies have shown the
potential of Transformer to increase the prediction capacity.
However, there are several severe issues with Transformer
that prevent it from being directly applicable to LSTF, includ-
ing quadratic time complexity, high memory usage, and in-
herent limitation of the encoder-decoder architecture. To ad-
dress these issues, we design an efﬁcient transformer-based
model for LSTF, named Informer, with three distinctive char-
acteristics: (i) a ProbSparse self-attention mechanism, which
achieves O(L log L) in time complexity and memory usage,
and has comparable performance on sequences’ dependency
alignment. (ii) the self-attention distilling highlights dominat-
ing attention by halving cascading layer input, and efﬁciently
handles extreme long input sequences. (iii) the generative
style decoder, while conceptually simple, predicts the long
time-series sequences at one forward operation rather than
a step-by-step way, which drastically improves the inference
speed of long-sequence predictions. Extensive experiments
on four large-scale datasets demonstrate that Informer sig-
niﬁcantly outperforms existing methods and provides a new
solution to the LSTF problem.
1
Introduction
Time-series forecasting is a critical ingredient across many
domains, such as sensor network monitoring (Papadimitriou
and Yu 2006), energy and smart grid management, eco-
nomics and ﬁnance (Zhu and Shasha 2002), and disease
propagation analysis (Matsubara et al. 2014). In these sce-
narios, we can leverage a substantial amount of time-series
data on past behavior to make a forecast in the long run,
namely long sequence time-series forecasting (LSTF). How-
ever, existing methods are mostly designed under short-term
problem setting, like predicting 48 points or less (Hochreiter
and Schmidhuber 1997; Li et al. 2018; Yu et al. 2017; Liu
et al. 2019; Qin et al. 2017; Wen et al. 2017). The increas-
ingly long sequences strain the models’ prediction capacity
to the point where this trend is holding the research on LSTF.
As an empirical example, Fig.(1) shows the forecasting re-
sults on a real dataset, where the LSTM network predicts the
2d
4d
6d
8d
Time
0d
Ground truth
Prediction
Short
Long
(a) Sequence Forecasting.
1248 96
192
480
The predict sequence length
2
4
6
MSE score
10
−1
10
0
The predictions/sec
(in log scale)
MSE score
Inference speed
(b) Run LSTM on sequences.
Figure 1: (a) LSTF can cover an extended period than
the short sequence predictions, making vital distinction in
policy-planning and investment-protecting. (b) The predic-
tion capacity of existing methods limits LSTF’s perfor-
mance. E.g., starting from length=48, MSE rises unaccept-
ably high, and the inference speed drops rapidly.
hourly temperature of an electrical transformer station from
the short-term period (12 points, 0.5 days) to the long-term
period (480 points, 20 days). The overall performance gap
is substantial when the prediction length is greater than 48
points (the solid star in Fig.(1b)), where the MSE rises to
unsatisfactory performance, the inference speed gets sharp
drop, and the LSTM model starts to fail.
The major challenge for LSTF is to enhance the predic-
tion capacity to meet the increasingly long sequence de-
mand, which requires (a) extraordinary long-range align-
ment ability and (b) efﬁcient operations on long sequence in-
puts and outputs. Recently, Transformer models have shown
superior performance in capturing long-range dependency
than RNN models. The self-attention mechanism can re-
duce the maximum length of network signals traveling paths
into the theoretical shortest O(1) and avoid the recurrent
structure, whereby Transformer shows great potential for
the LSTF problem. Nevertheless, the self-attention mecha-
nism violates requirement (b) due to its L-quadratic compu-
tation and memory consumption on L-length inputs/outputs.
Some large-scale Transformer models pour resources and
yield impressive results on NLP tasks (Brown et al. 2020),
but the training on dozens of GPUs and expensive deploying
cost make theses models unaffordable on real-world LSTF
problem. The efﬁciency of the self-attention mechanism and
Transformer architecture becomes the bottleneck of apply-
ing them to LSTF problems. Thus, in this paper, we seek to
answer the question: can we improve Transformer models to
arXiv:2012.07436v3  [cs.LG]  28 Mar 2021
be computation, memory, and architecture efﬁcient, as well
as maintaining higher prediction capacity?
Vanilla Transformer (Vaswani et al. 2017) has three sig-
niﬁcant limitations when solving the LSTF problem:
1. The quadratic computation of self-attention. The atom
operation of self-attention mechanism, namely canonical
dot-product, causes the time complexity and memory us-
age per layer to be O(L2).
2. The memory bottleneck in stacking layers for long in-
puts. The stack of J encoder/decoder layers makes total
memory usage to be O(J · L2), which limits the model
scalability in receiving long sequence inputs.
3. The speed plunge in predicting long outputs. Dynamic
decoding of vanilla Transformer makes the step-by-step
inference as slow as RNN-based model (Fig.(1b)).
There are some prior works on improving the efﬁciency of
self-attention. The Sparse Transformer (Child et al. 2019),
LogSparse Transformer (Li et al. 2019), and Longformer
(Beltagy, Peters, and Cohan 2020) all use a heuristic method
to tackle limitation 1 and reduce the complexity of self-
attention mechanism to O(L log L), where their efﬁciency
gain is limited (Qiu et al. 2019). Reformer (Kitaev, Kaiser,
and Levskaya 2019) also achieves O(L log L) with locally-
sensitive hashing self-attention, but it only works on ex-
tremely long sequences. More recently, Linformer (Wang
et al. 2020) claims a linear complexity O(L), but the project
matrix can not be ﬁxed for real-world long sequence in-
put, which may have the risk of degradation to O(L2).
Transformer-XL (Dai et al. 2019) and Compressive Trans-
former (Rae et al. 2019) use auxiliary hidden states to cap-
ture long-range dependency, which could amplify limitation
1 and be adverse to break the efﬁciency bottleneck. All these
works mainly focus on limitation 1, and the limitation 2&3
remains unsolved in the LSTF problem. To enhance the pre-
diction capacity, we tackle all these limitations and achieve
improvement beyond efﬁciency in the proposed Informer.
To this end, our work delves explicitly into these three is-
sues. We investigate the sparsity in the self-attention mecha-
nism, make improvements of network components, and con-
duct extensive experiments. The contributions of this paper
are summarized as follows:
• We propose Informer to successfully enhance the predic-
tion capacity in the LSTF problem, which validates the
Transformer-like model’s potential value to capture in-
dividual long-range dependency between long sequence
time-series outputs and inputs.
• We propose ProbSparse self-attention mechanism to ef-
ﬁciently replace the canonical self-attention. It achieves
the O(L log L) time complexity and O(L log L) memory
usage on dependency alignments.
• We propose self-attention distilling operation to privi-
lege dominating attention scores in J-stacking layers and
sharply reduce the total space complexity to be O((2 −
ϵ)L log L), which helps receiving long sequence input.
• We propose generative style decoder to acquire long se-
quence output with only one forward step needed, simul-
taneously avoiding cumulative error spreading during the
inference phase.
Decoder
Outputs
Masked Multi-head
ProbSparse
Self-attention
Multi-head
Attention
Encoder
Inputs:    Xen
Concatenated Feature Map
Inputs:    Xde={Xtoken, X0}
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Fully Connected Layer
Multi-head
ProbSparse
Self-attention
Multi-head
ProbSparse
Self-attention
Figure 2: Informer model overview. Left: The encoder re-
ceives massive long sequence inputs (green series). We re-
place canonical self-attention with the proposed ProbSparse
self-attention. The blue trapezoid is the self-attention distill-
ing operation to extract dominating attention, reducing the
network size sharply. The layer stacking replicas increase ro-
bustness. Right: The decoder receives long sequence inputs,
pads the target elements into zero, measures the weighted
attention composition of the feature map, and instantly pre-
dicts output elements (orange series) in a generative style.
2
Preliminary
We ﬁrst provide the LSTF problem deﬁnition. Under the
rolling forecasting setting with a ﬁxed size window, we have
the input X t = {xt
1, . . . , xt
Lx | xt
i ∈Rdx} at time t,
and the output is to predict corresponding sequence Yt =
{yt
1, . . . , yt
Ly | yt
i ∈Rdy}. The LSTF problem encourages
a longer output’s length Ly than previous works (Cho et al.
2014; Sutskever, Vinyals, and Le 2014) and the feature di-
mension is not limited to univariate case (dy ≥1).
Encoder-decoder architecture Many popular models are
devised to “encode” the input representations X t into a hid-
den state representations Ht and “decode” an output rep-
resentations Yt from Ht = {ht
1, . . . , ht
Lh}. The inference
involves a step-by-step process named “dynamic decoding”,
where the decoder computes a new hidden state ht
k+1 from
the previous state ht
k and other necessary outputs from k-th
step then predict the (k + 1)-th sequence yt
k+1.
Input Representation A uniform input representation is
given to enhance the global positional context and local tem-
poral context of the time-series inputs. To avoid trivializing
description, we put the details in Appendix B.
3
Methodology
Existing methods for time-series forecasting can be roughly
grouped into two categories1. Classical time-series mod-
els serve as a reliable workhorse for time-series forecast-
ing (Box et al. 2015; Ray 1990; Seeger et al. 2017; Seeger,
Salinas, and Flunkert 2016), and deep learning techniques
mainly develop an encoder-decoder prediction paradigm by
using RNN and their variants (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber
1997; Li et al. 2018; Yu et al. 2017). Our proposed Informer
holds the encoder-decoder architecture while targeting the
1Related work is in Appendix A due to space limitation.
LSTF problem. Please refer to Fig.(2) for an overview and
the following sections for details.
Efﬁcient Self-attention Mechanism
The canonical self-attention in (Vaswani et al. 2017) is de-
ﬁned based on the tuple inputs, i.e, query, key and value,
which performs the scaled dot-product as A(Q, K, V) =
Softmax(QK⊤/
√
d)V, where Q ∈RLQ×d, K ∈RLK×d,
V ∈RLV ×d and d is the input dimension. To further discuss
the self-attention mechanism, let qi, ki, vi stand for the i-th
row in Q, K, V respectively. Following the formulation in
(Tsai et al. 2019), the i-th query’s attention is deﬁned as a
kernel smoother in a probability form:
A(qi, K, V) =
X
j
k(qi, kj)
P
l k(qi, kl)vj = Ep(kj|qi)[vj] , (1)
where p(kj|qi) = k(qi, kj)/P
l k(qi, kl) and k(qi, kj)
selects the asymmetric exponential kernel exp(qik⊤
j /
√
d).
The self-attention combines the values and acquires outputs
based on computing the probability p(kj|qi). It requires
the quadratic times dot-product computation and O(LQLK)
memory usage, which is the major drawback when enhanc-
ing prediction capacity.
Some previous attempts have revealed that the distribution
of self-attention probability has potential sparsity, and they
have designed “selective” counting strategies on all p(kj|qi)
without signiﬁcantly affecting the performance. The Sparse
Transformer (Child et al. 2019) incorporates both the row
outputs and column inputs, in which the sparsity arises
from the separated spatial correlation. The LogSparse Trans-
former (Li et al. 2019) notices the cyclical pattern in self-
attention and forces each cell to attend to its previous one
by an exponential step size. The Longformer (Beltagy, Pe-
ters, and Cohan 2020) extends previous two works to more
complicated sparse conﬁguration. However, they are limited
to theoretical analysis from following heuristic methods and
tackle each multi-head self-attention with the same strategy,
which narrows their further improvement.
To motivate our approach, we ﬁrst perform a qualitative
assessment on the learned attention patterns of the canoni-
cal self-attention. The “sparsity” self-attention score forms
a long tail distribution (see Appendix C for details), i.e., a
few dot-product pairs contribute to the major attention, and
others generate trivial attention. Then, the next question is
how to distinguish them?
Query Sparsity Measurement From Eq.(1), the i-th
query’s attention on all the keys are deﬁned as a probabil-
ity p(kj|qi) and the output is its composition with values v.
The dominant dot-product pairs encourage the correspond-
ing query’s attention probability distribution away from the
uniform distribution. If p(kj|qi) is close to a uniform dis-
tribution q(kj|qi) = 1/LK, the self-attention becomes a
trivial sum of values V and is redundant to the residential
input. Naturally, the “likeness” between distribution p and
q can be used to distinguish the “important” queries. We
measure the “likeness” through Kullback-Leibler divergence
KL(q||p) = ln PLK
l=1 eqik⊤
l /
√
d −
1
LK
PLK
j=1 qik⊤
j /
√
d −
ln LK. Dropping the constant, we deﬁne the i-th query’s
sparsity measurement as
M(qi, K) = ln
LK
X
j=1
e
qik⊤
j
√
d −
1
LK
LK
X
j=1
qik⊤
j
√
d
,
(2)
where the ﬁrst term is the Log-Sum-Exp (LSE) of qi on
all the keys, and the second term is the arithmetic mean on
them. If the i-th query gains a larger M(qi, K), its atten-
tion probability p is more “diverse” and has a high chance to
contain the dominate dot-product pairs in the header ﬁeld of
the long tail self-attention distribution.
ProbSparse Self-attention Based on the proposed mea-
surement, we have the ProbSparse self-attention by allowing
each key to only attend to the u dominant queries:
A(Q, K, V) = Softmax(QK⊤
√
d
)V
,
(3)
where Q is a sparse matrix of the same size of q and it
only contains the Top-u queries under the sparsity measure-
ment M(q, K). Controlled by a constant sampling factor c,
we set u = c · ln LQ, which makes the ProbSparse self-
attention only need to calculate O(ln LQ) dot-product for
each query-key lookup and the layer memory usage main-
tains O(LK ln LQ). Under the multi-head perspective, this
attention generates different sparse query-key pairs for each
head, which avoids severe information loss in return.
However, the traversing of all the queries for the measure-
ment M(qi, K) requires calculating each dot-product pairs,
i.e., quadratically O(LQLK), besides the LSE operation has
the potential numerical stability issue. Motivated by this, we
propose an empirical approximation for the efﬁcient acqui-
sition of the query sparsity measurement.
Lemma 1. For each query qi ∈Rd and kj ∈Rd in the
keys set K, we have the bound as ln LK ≤M(qi, K) ≤
maxj{qik⊤
j /
√
d} −
1
LK
PLK
j=1{qik⊤
j /
√
d} + ln LK. When
qi ∈K, it also holds.
From the Lemma 1 (proof is given in Appendix D.1), we
propose the max-mean measurement as
M(qi, K) = max
j {qik⊤
j
√
d
} −
1
LK
LK
X
j=1
qik⊤
j
√
d
.
(4)
The range of Top-u approximately holds in the bound-
ary relaxation with Proposition 1 (refers in Appendix D.2).
Under the long tail distribution, we only need to randomly
sample U = LK ln LQ dot-product pairs to calculate the
M(qi, K), i.e., ﬁlling other pairs with zero. Then, we se-
lect sparse Top-u from them as Q. The max-operator in
M(qi, K) is less sensitive to zero values and is numeri-
cal stable. In practice, the input length of queries and keys
are typically equivalent in the self-attention computation, i.e
LQ = LK = L such that the total ProbSparse self-attention
time complexity and space complexity are O(L ln L).
Scalar
Stamp
T = t
T = t + Dx
L
d
Conv1d
L
d
Embedding
+
L
k
L
n-heads
Attention Block 1
Conv1d
MaxPool1d,
padding=2
L/2
k
L/2
n-heads
Attention Block 2
Conv1d
MaxPool1d,
padding=2
L/4
k
L/4
n-heads
Attention Block 3
L/4
d
Feature
Map
Figure 3: The single stack in Informer’s encoder. (1) The horizontal stack stands for an individual one of the encoder replicas
in Fig.(2). (2) The presented one is the main stack receiving the whole input sequence. Then the second stack takes half slices
of the input, and the subsequent stacks repeat. (3) The red layers are dot-product matrixes, and they get cascade decrease by
applying self-attention distilling on each layer. (4) Concatenate all stacks’ feature maps as the encoder’s output.
Encoder: Allowing for Processing Longer
Sequential Inputs under the Memory Usage
Limitation
The encoder is designed to extract the robust long-range de-
pendency of the long sequential inputs. After the input rep-
resentation, the t-th sequence input X t has been shaped into
a matrix Xt
en ∈RLx×dmodel. We give a sketch of the encoder
in Fig.(3) for clarity.
Self-attention Distilling As the natural consequence of
the ProbSparse self-attention mechanism, the encoder’s fea-
ture map has redundant combinations of value V. We use
the distilling operation to privilege the superior ones with
dominating features and make a focused self-attention fea-
ture map in the next layer. It trims the input’s time dimension
sharply, seeing the n-heads weights matrix (overlapping red
squares) of Attention blocks in Fig.(3). Inspired by the di-
lated convolution (Yu, Koltun, and Funkhouser 2017; Gupta
and Rush 2017), our “distilling” procedure forwards from
j-th layer into (j + 1)-th layer as:
Xt
j+1 = MaxPool
 ELU( Conv1d([Xt
j]AB) )

,
(5)
where [·]AB represents the attention block. It contains the
Multi-head ProbSparse self-attention and the essential op-
erations, where Conv1d(·) performs an 1-D convolutional
ﬁlters (kernel width=3) on time dimension with the ELU(·)
activation function (Clevert, Unterthiner, and Hochreiter
2016). We add a max-pooling layer with stride 2 and down-
sample Xt into its half slice after stacking a layer, which
reduces the whole memory usage to be O((2 −ϵ)L log L),
where ϵ is a small number. To enhance the robustness of
the distilling operation, we build replicas of the main stack
with halving inputs, and progressively decrease the number
of self-attention distilling layers by dropping one layer at a
time, like a pyramid in Fig.(2), such that their output dimen-
sion is aligned. Thus, we concatenate all the stacks’ outputs
and have the ﬁnal hidden representation of encoder.
Decoder: Generating Long Sequential Outputs
Through One Forward Procedure
We use a standard decoder structure (Vaswani et al. 2017) in
Fig.(2), and it is composed of a stack of two identical multi-
head attention layers. However, the generative inference is
employed to alleviate the speed plunge in long prediction.
We feed the decoder with the following vectors as
Xt
de = Concat(Xt
token, Xt
0) ∈R(Ltoken+Ly)×dmodel
,
(6)
where Xt
token
∈RLtoken×dmodel is the start token, Xt
0
∈
RLy×dmodel is a placeholder for the target sequence (set
scalar as 0). Masked multi-head attention is applied in the
ProbSparse self-attention computing by setting masked dot-
products to −∞. It prevents each position from attending
to coming positions, which avoids auto-regressive. A fully
connected layer acquires the ﬁnal output, and its outsize dy
depends on whether we are performing a univariate forecast-
ing or a multivariate one.
Generative Inference Start token is efﬁciently applied in
NLP’s “dynamic decoding” (Devlin et al. 2018), and we ex-
tend it into a generative way. Instead of choosing speciﬁc
ﬂags as the token, we sample a Ltoken long sequence in the
input sequence, such as an earlier slice before the output se-
quence. Take predicting 168 points as an example (7-day
temperature prediction in the experiment section), we will
take the known 5 days before the target sequence as “start-
token”, and feed the generative-style inference decoder with
Xde = {X5d, X0}. The X0 contains target sequence’s time
stamp, i.e., the context at the target week. Then our proposed
decoder predicts outputs by one forward procedure rather
than the time consuming “dynamic decoding” in the conven-
tional encoder-decoder architecture. A detailed performance
comparison is given in the computation efﬁciency section.
Loss function We choose the MSE loss function on pre-
diction w.r.t the target sequences, and the loss is propagated
back from the decoder’s outputs across the entire model.
Methods
Informer
Informer†
LogTrans
Reformer
LSTMa
DeepAR
ARIMA
Prophet
Metric
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
MSE MAE
ETTh1
24
0.098 0.247
0.092 0.246
0.103 0.259
0.222 0.389
0.114 0.272
0.107 0.280
0.108 0.284
0.115 0.275
48
0.158 0.319
0.161 0.322
0.167 0.328
0.284 0.445
0.193 0.358
0.162 0.327
0.175 0.424
0.168 0.330
168
0.183 0.346
0.187 0.355
0.207 0.375
1.522 1.191
0.236 0.392
0.239 0.422
0.396 0.504
1.224 0.763
336
0.222 0.387
0.215 0.369
0.230 0.398
1.860 1.124
0.590 0.698
0.445 0.552
0.468 0.593
1.549 1.820
720
0.269 0.435
0.257 0.421
0.273 0.463
2.112 1.436
0.683 0.768
0.658 0.707
0.659 0.766
2.735 3.253
ETTh2
24
0.093 0.240
0.099 0.241
0.102 0.255
0.263 0.437
0.155 0.307
0.098 0.263
3.554 0.445
0.199 0.381
48
0.155 0.314
0.159 0.317
0.169 0.348
0.458 0.545
0.190 0.348
0.163 0.341
3.190 0.474
0.304 0.462
168
0.232 0.389
0.235 0.390
0.246 0.422
1.029 0.879
0.385 0.514
0.255 0.414
2.800 0.595
2.145 1.068
336
0.263 0.417
0.258 0.423
0.267 0.437
1.668 1.228
0.558 0.606
0.604 0.607
2.753 0.738
2.096 2.543
720
0.277 0.431
0.285 0.442
0.303 0.493
2.030 1.721
0.640 0.681
0.429 0.580
2.878 1.044
3.355 4.664
ETTm1
24
0.030 0.137
0.034 0.160
0.065 0.202
0.095 0.228
0.121 0.233
0.091 0.243
0.090 0.206
0.120 0.290
48
0.069 0.203
0.066 0.194
0.078 0.220
0.249 0.390
0.305 0.411
0.219 0.362
0.179 0.306
0.133 0.305
96
0.194 0.372
0.187 0.384
0.199 0.386
0.920 0.767
0.287 0.420
0.364 0.496
0.272 0.399
0.194 0.396
288
0.401 0.554
0.409 0.548
0.411 0.572
1.108 1.245
0.524 0.584
0.948 0.795
0.462 0.558
0.452 0.574
672
0.512 0.644
0.519 0.665
0.598 0.702
1.793 1.528
1.064 0.873
2.437 1.352
0.639 0.697
2.747 1.174
Weather
24
0.117 0.251
0.119 0.256
0.136 0.279
0.231 0.401
0.131 0.254
0.128 0.274
0.219 0.355
0.302 0.433
48
0.178 0.318
0.185 0.316
0.206 0.356
0.328 0.423
0.190 0.334
0.203 0.353
0.273 0.409
0.445 0.536
168
0.266 0.398
0.269 0.404
0.309 0.439
0.654 0.634
0.341 0.448
0.293 0.451
0.503 0.599
2.441 1.142
336
0.297 0.416
0.310 0.422
0.359 0.484
1.792 1.093
0.456 0.554
0.585 0.644
0.728 0.730
1.987 2.468
720
0.359 0.466
0.361 0.471
0.388 0.499
2.087 1.534
0.866 0.809
0.499 0.596
1.062 0.943
3.859 1.144
ECL
48
0.239 0.359
0.238 0.368
0.280 0.429
0.971 0.884
0.493 0.539
0.204 0.357
0.879 0.764
0.524 0.595
168
0.447 0.503
0.442 0.514
0.454 0.529
1.671 1.587
0.723 0.655
0.315 0.436
1.032 0.833
2.725 1.273
336
0.489 0.528
0.501 0.552
0.514 0.563
3.528 2.196
1.212 0.898
0.414 0.519
1.136 0.876
2.246 3.077
720
0.540 0.571
0.543 0.578
0.558 0.609
4.891 4.047
1.511 0.966
0.563 0.595
1.251 0.933
4.243 1.415
960
0.582 0.608
0.594 0.638
0.624 0.645
7.019 5.105
1.545 1.006
0.657 0.683
1.370 0.982
6.901 4.264
Count
32
12
0
0
0
6
0
0
Table 1: Univariate long sequence time-series forecasting results on four datasets (ﬁve cases).
4
Experiment
Datasets
We extensively perform experiments on four datasets, in-
cluding 2 collected real-world datasets for LSTF and 2 pub-
lic benchmark datasets.
ETT (Electricity Transformer Temperature)2: The ETT is
a crucial indicator in the electric power long-term deploy-
ment. We collected 2-year data from two separated counties
in China. To explore the granularity on the LSTF problem,
we create separate datasets as {ETTh1, ETTh2} for 1-hour-
level and ETTm1 for 15-minute-level. Each data point con-
sists of the target value ”oil temperature” and 6 power load
features. The train/val/test is 12/4/4 months.
ECL (Electricity Consuming Load)3: It collects the elec-
tricity consumption (Kwh) of 321 clients. Due to the missing
data (Li et al. 2019), we convert the dataset into hourly con-
sumption of 2 years and set ‘MT 320’ as the target value.
The train/val/test is 15/3/4 months.
Weather 4: This dataset contains local climatological data
for nearly 1,600 U.S. locations, 4 years from 2010 to 2013,
where data points are collected every 1 hour. Each data point
2We collected the ETT dataset and published it at https://
github.com/zhouhaoyi/ETDataset.
3ECL dataset was acquired at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/
datasets/ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014.
4Weather dataset was acquired at https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/
data/local-climatological-data/.
consists of the target value “wet bulb” and 11 climate fea-
tures. The train/val/test is 28/10/10 months.
Experimental Details
We brieﬂy summarize basics, and more information on net-
work components and setups are given in Appendix E.
Baselines: We have selected ﬁve time-series forecast-
ing methods as comparison, including ARIMA (Ariyo,
Adewumi, and Ayo 2014), Prophet (Taylor and Letham
2018), LSTMa (Bahdanau, Cho, and Bengio 2015), LST-
net (Lai et al. 2018) and DeepAR (Flunkert, Salinas, and
Gasthaus 2017). To better explore the ProbSparse self-
attention’s performance in our proposed Informer, we in-
corporate the canonical self-attention variant (Informer†),
the efﬁcient variant Reformer (Kitaev, Kaiser, and Levskaya
2019) and the most related work LogSparse self-attention
(Li et al. 2019) in the experiments. The details of network
components are given in Appendix E.1.
Hyper-parameter tuning: We conduct grid search over
the hyper-parameters, and detailed ranges are given in Ap-
pendix E.3. Informer contains a 3-layer stack and a 1-
layer stack (1/4 input) in the encoder, and a 2-layer de-
coder. Our proposed methods are optimized with Adam
optimizer, and its learning rate starts from 1e−4, decay-
ing two times smaller every epoch. The total number of
epochs is 8 with proper early stopping. We set the com-
parison methods as recommended, and the batch size is 32.
Setup: The input of each dataset is zero-mean normalized.
Methods
Informer
Informer†
LogTrans
Reformer
LSTMa
LSTnet
Metric
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
ETTh1
24
0.577
0.549
0.620
0.577
0.686
0.604
0.991
0.754
0.650
0.624
1.293
0.901
48
0.685
0.625
0.692
0.671
0.766
0.757
1.313
0.906
0.702
0.675
1.456
0.960
168
0.931
0.752
0.947
0.797
1.002
0.846
1.824
1.138
1.212
0.867
1.997
1.214
336
1.128
0.873
1.094
0.813
1.362
0.952
2.117
1.280
1.424
0.994
2.655
1.369
720
1.215
0.896
1.241
0.917
1.397
1.291
2.415
1.520
1.960
1.322
2.143
1.380
ETTh2
24
0.720
0.665
0.753
0.727
0.828
0.750
1.531
1.613
1.143
0.813
2.742
1.457
48
1.457
1.001
1.461
1.077
1.806
1.034
1.871
1.735
1.671
1.221
3.567
1.687
168
3.489
1.515
3.485
1.612
4.070
1.681
4.660
1.846
4.117
1.674
3.242
2.513
336
2.723
1.340
2.626
1.285
3.875
1.763
4.028
1.688
3.434
1.549
2.544
2.591
720
3.467
1.473
3.548
1.495
3.913
1.552
5.381
2.015
3.963
1.788
4.625
3.709
ETTm1
24
0.323
0.369
0.306
0.371
0.419
0.412
0.724
0.607
0.621
0.629
1.968
1.170
48
0.494
0.503
0.465
0.470
0.507
0.583
1.098
0.777
1.392
0.939
1.999
1.215
96
0.678
0.614
0.681
0.612
0.768
0.792
1.433
0.945
1.339
0.913
2.762
1.542
288
1.056
0.786
1.162
0.879
1.462
1.320
1.820
1.094
1.740
1.124
1.257
2.076
672
1.192
0.926
1.231
1.103
1.669
1.461
2.187
1.232
2.736
1.555
1.917
2.941
Weather
24
0.335
0.381
0.349
0.397
0.435
0.477
0.655
0.583
0.546
0.570
0.615
0.545
48
0.395
0.459
0.386
0.433
0.426
0.495
0.729
0.666
0.829
0.677
0.660
0.589
168
0.608
0.567
0.613
0.582
0.727
0.671
1.318
0.855
1.038
0.835
0.748
0.647
336
0.702
0.620
0.707
0.634
0.754
0.670
1.930
1.167
1.657
1.059
0.782
0.683
720
0.831
0.731
0.834
0.741
0.885
0.773
2.726
1.575
1.536
1.109
0.851
0.757
ECL
48
0.344
0.393
0.334
0.399
0.355
0.418
1.404
0.999
0.486
0.572
0.369
0.445
168
0.368
0.424
0.353
0.420
0.368
0.432
1.515
1.069
0.574
0.602
0.394
0.476
336
0.381
0.431
0.381
0.439
0.373
0.439
1.601
1.104
0.886
0.795
0.419
0.477
720
0.406
0.443
0.391
0.438
0.409
0.454
2.009
1.170
1.676
1.095
0.556
0.565
960
0.460
0.548
0.492
0.550
0.477
0.589
2.141
1.387
1.591
1.128
0.605
0.599
Count
33
14
1
0
0
2
Table 2: Multivariate long sequence time-series forecasting results on four datasets (ﬁve cases).
Under the LSTF settings, we prolong the prediction win-
dows size Ly progressively, i.e., {1d, 2d, 7d, 14d, 30d, 40d}
in {ETTh, ECL, Weather}, {6h, 12h, 24h, 72h, 168h} in
ETTm. Metrics: We use two evaluation metrics, including
MSE =
1
n
Pn
i=1(y −ˆy)2 and MAE =
1
n
Pn
i=1 |y −ˆy|
on each prediction window (averaging for multivariate pre-
diction), and roll the whole set with stride = 1. Platform:
All the models were trained/tested on a single Nvidia V100
32GB GPU. The source code is available at https://github.
com/zhouhaoyi/Informer2020.
Results and Analysis
Table 1 and Table 2 summarize the univariate/multivariate
evaluation results of all the methods on 4 datasets. We grad-
ually prolong the prediction horizon as a higher requirement
of prediction capacity, where the LSTF problem setting is
precisely controlled to be tractable on one single GPU for
each method. The best results are highlighted in boldface.
Univariate Time-series Forecasting Under this setting,
each method attains predictions as a single variable over
time series. From Table 1, we can observe that: (1) The pro-
posed model Informer signiﬁcantly improves the inference
performance (wining-counts in the last column) across all
datasets, and their predict error rises smoothly and slowly
within the growing prediction horizon, which demonstrates
the success of Informer in enhancing the prediction capacity
in the LSTF problem. (2) The Informer beats its canonical
degradation Informer† mostly in wining-counts, i.e., 32>12,
which supports the query sparsity assumption in providing
a comparable attention feature map. Our proposed method
also out-performs the most related work LogTrans and Re-
former. We note that the Reformer keeps dynamic decoding
and performs poorly in LSTF, while other methods beneﬁt
from the generative style decoder as nonautoregressive pre-
dictors. (3) The Informer model shows signiﬁcantly better
results than recurrent neural networks LSTMa. Our method
has a MSE decrease of 26.8% (at 168), 52.4% (at 336) and
60.1% (at 720). This reveals a shorter network path in the
self-attention mechanism acquires better prediction capac-
ity than the RNN-based models. (4) The proposed method
outperforms DeepAR, ARIMA and Prophet on MSE by de-
creasing 49.3% (at 168), 61.1% (at 336), and 65.1% (at 720)
in average. On the ECL dataset, DeepAR performs better
on shorter horizons (≤336), and our method surpasses on
longer horizons. We attribute this to a speciﬁc example, in
which the effectiveness of prediction capacity is reﬂected
with the problem scalability.
Multivariate Time-series Forecasting Within this set-
ting, some univariate methods are inappropriate, and LSTnet
is the state-of-art baseline. On the contrary, our proposed In-
former is easy to change from univariate prediction to mul-
tivariate one by adjusting the ﬁnal FCN layer. From Table 2,
we observe that: (1) The proposed model Informer greatly
outperforms other methods and the ﬁndings 1 & 2 in the uni-
variate settings still hold for the multivariate time-series. (2)
The Informer model shows better results than RNN-based
48
96
168
240
336
480
624
720
Prolong Input Length (Lx, Ltoken)
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
MSE score
Encoder Input (horizon=48)
Decoder Token (horizon=48)
Encoder Input (horizon=168)
Decoder Token (horizon=168)
(a) Input length.
48
96
168
240
480
624
720
Encoder Input Length (Lx)
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
MSE score
Informer, factor c=3
Informer, factor c=5
Informer, factor c=8
Informer, factor c=10
(b) Sampling Factor.
96
168
240
336
480
720
Encoder Input Length (Lx)
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
MSE score
L-scale Dependency
L/2-scale Dependency
L/4-scale Dependency
Informer Dependency
(c) Stacking Combination.
Figure 4: The parameter sensitivity of three components in Informer.
Prediction length
336
720
Encoder’s input
336
720
1440
720
1440
2880
Informer
MSE
0.249
0.225
0.216
0.271
0.261
0.257
MAE
0.393
0.384
0.376
0.435
0.431
0.422
Informer†
MSE
0.241
0.214
-
0.259
-
-
MAE
0.383
0.371
-
0.423
-
-
LogTrans
MSE
0.263
0.231
-
0.273
-
-
MAE
0.418
0.398
-
0.463
-
-
Reformer
MSE
1.875
1.865
1.861
2.243
2.174
2.113
MAE
1.144
1.129
1.125
1.536
1.497
1.434
1 Informer† uses the canonical self-attention mechanism.
2 The ‘-’ indicates failure for the out-of-memory.
Table 3: Ablation study of the ProbSparse self-attention mechanism.
Methods
Training
Testing
Time
Memory
Steps
Informer
O(L log L)
O(L log L)
1
Transformer
O(L2)
O(L2)
L
LogTrans
O(L log L)
O(L2)
1⋆
Reformer
O(L log L)
O(L log L)
L
LSTM
O(L)
O(L)
L
1 The LSTnet is hard to present in a closed form.
2 The ⋆denotes applying our proposed decoder.
Table 4: L-related computation statics of each layer.
LSTMa and CNN-based LSTnet, and the MSE decreases
26.6% (at 168), 28.2% (at 336), 34.3% (at 720) in average.
Compared with the univariate results, the overwhelming per-
formance is reduced, and such phenomena can be caused by
the anisotropy of feature dimensions’ prediction capacity. It
is beyond the scope of this paper, and we will explore it in
the future work.
LSTF with Granularity Consideration We perform an
additional comparison to explore the performance with var-
ious granularities. The sequences {96, 288, 672} of ETTm1
(minutes-level) are aligned with {24, 48, 168} of ETTh1
(hour-level). The Informer outperforms other baselines even
if the sequences are at different granularity levels.
Parameter Sensitivity
We perform the sensitivity analysis of the proposed In-
former model on ETTh1 under the univariate setting. Input
Length: In Fig.(4a), when predicting short sequences (like
48), initially increasing input length of encoder/decoder de-
grades performance, but further increasing causes the MSE
to drop because it brings repeat short-term patterns. How-
ever, the MSE gets lower with longer inputs in predict-
ing long sequences (like 168). Because the longer encoder
input may contain more dependencies, and the longer de-
coder token has rich local information. Sampling Factor:
The sampling factor controls the information bandwidth of
ProbSparse self-attention in Eq.(3). We start from the small
factor (=3) to large ones, and the general performance in-
creases a little and stabilizes at last in Fig.(4b). It veriﬁes
our query sparsity assumption that there are redundant dot-
product pairs in the self-attention mechanism. We set the
sample factor c = 5 (the red line) in practice. The Combi-
nation of Layer Stacking: The replica of Layers is comple-
mentary for the self-attention distilling, and we investigate
each stack {L, L/2, L/4}’s behavior in Fig.(4c). The longer
stack is more sensitive to the inputs, partly due to receiving
more long-term information. Our method’s selection (the red
line), i.e., joining L and L/4, is the most robust strategy.
Ablation Study: How well Informer works?
We also conducted additional experiments on ETTh1 with
ablation consideration.
The performance of ProbSparse self-attention mech-
anism In the overall results Table 1 & 2, we limited the
problem setting to make the memory usage feasible for the
canonical self-attention. In this study, we compare our meth-
ods with LogTrans and Reformer, and thoroughly explore
their extreme performance. To isolate the memory efﬁcient
problem, we ﬁrst reduce settings as {batch size=8, heads=8,
dim=64}, and maintain other setups in the univariate case.
In Table 3, the ProbSparse self-attention shows better per-
formance than the counterparts. The LogTrans gets OOM
Prediction length
336
480
Encoder’s input
336
480
720
960
1200
336
480
720
960
1200
Informer†
MSE
0.249
0.208
0.225
0.199
0.186
0.197
0.243
0.213
0.192
0.174
MAE
0.393
0.385
0.384
0.371
0.365
0.388
0.392
0.383
0.377
0.362
Informer‡
MSE
0.229
0.215
0.204
-
-
0.224
0.208
0.197
-
-
MAE
0.391
0.387
0.377
-
-
0.381
0.376
0.370
-
-
1 Informer‡ removes the self-attention distilling from Informer†.
2 The ‘-’ indicates failure for the out-of-memory.
Table 5: Ablation study of the self-attention distilling.
Prediction length
336
480
Prediction offset
+0
+12
+24
+48
+72
+0
+48
+96
+144
+168
Informer‡
MSE
0.207
0.209
0.211
0.211
0.216
0.198
0.203
0.203
0.208
0.208
MAE
0.385
0.387
0.391
0.393
0.397
0.390
0.392
0.393
0.401
0.403
Informer§
MSE
0.201
-
-
-
-
0.392
-
-
-
-
MAE
0.393
-
-
-
-
0.484
-
-
-
-
1 Informer§ replaces our decoder with dynamic decoding one in Informer‡.
2 The ‘-’ indicates failure for the unacceptable metric results.
Table 6: Ablation study of the generative style decoder.
48
96
168
336
720
Encoder Input length (Lx)
1
2
3
Train time (day)
LSTnet
LSTM
Informer
Informer†
LogTrans
Reformer
48
96
168
336
720
Decoder predict length (Ly)
2
4
6
8
Inference time (day)
LSTnet
LSTM
Informer
Informer†
Informer§
LogTrans
Reformer
Figure 5: The total runtime of training/testing phase.
in extreme cases because its public implementation is the
mask of the full-attention, which still has O(L2) memory
usage. Our proposed ProbSparse self-attention avoids this
from the simplicity brought by the query sparsity assump-
tion in Eq.(4), referring to the pseudo-code in Appendix E.2,
and reaches smaller memory usage.
The performance of self-attention distilling In this
study, we use Informer† as the benchmark to eliminate
additional effects of ProbSparse self-attention. The other
experimental setup is aligned with the settings of uni-
variate Time-series. From Table 5, Informer† has fulﬁlled
all the experiments and achieves better performance after
taking advantage of long sequence inputs. The compari-
son method Informer‡ removes the distilling operation and
reaches OOM with longer inputs (> 720). Regarding the
beneﬁts of long sequence inputs in the LSTF problem, we
conclude that the self-attention distilling is worth adopting,
especially when a longer prediction is required.
The performance of generative style decoder In this
study, we testify the potential value of our decoder in acquir-
ing a “generative” results. Unlike the existing methods, the
labels and outputs are forced to be aligned in the training and
inference, our proposed decoder’s predicting relies solely on
the time stamp, which can predict with offsets. From Ta-
ble 6, we can see that the general prediction performance
of Informer‡ resists with the offset increasing, while the
counterpart fails for the dynamic decoding. It proves the de-
coder’s ability to capture individual long-range dependency
between arbitrary outputs and avoid error accumulation.
Computation Efﬁciency
With the multivariate setting and all the methods’ cur-
rent ﬁnest implement, we perform a rigorous runtime
comparison in Fig.(5). During the training phase, the In-
former (red line) achieves the best training efﬁciency among
Transformer-based methods. During the testing phase, our
methods are much faster than others with the generative
style decoding. The comparisons of theoretical time com-
plexity and memory usage are summarized in Table 4. The
performance of Informer is aligned with the runtime experi-
ments. Note that the LogTrans focus on improving the self-
attention mechanism, and we apply our proposed decoder in
LogTrans for a fair comparison (the ⋆in Table 4).
5
Conclusion
In this paper, we studied the long-sequence time-series fore-
casting problem and proposed Informer to predict long se-
quences. Speciﬁcally, we designed the ProbSparse self-
attention mechanism and distilling operation to handle the
challenges of quadratic time complexity and quadratic mem-
ory usage in vanilla Transformer. Also, the carefully de-
signed generative decoder alleviates the limitation of tra-
ditional encoder-decoder architecture. The experiments on
real-world data demonstrated the effectiveness of Informer
for enhancing the prediction capacity in LSTF problem.
Appendices
Appendix A
Related Work
We provide a literature review of the long sequence time-
series forecasting (LSTF) problem below.
Time-series Forecasting Existing methods for time-
series forecasting can be roughly grouped into two cate-
gories: classical models and deep learning based methods.
Classical time-series models serve as a reliable workhorse
for time-series forecasting, with appealing properties such as
interpretability and theoretical guarantees (Box et al. 2015;
Ray 1990). Modern extensions include the support for miss-
ing data (Seeger et al. 2017) and multiple data types (Seeger,
Salinas, and Flunkert 2016). Deep learning based methods
mainly develop sequence to sequence prediction paradigm
by using RNN and their variants, achieving ground-breaking
performance (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber 1997; Li et al.
2018; Yu et al. 2017). Despite the substantial progress, ex-
isting algorithms still fail to predict long sequence time
series with satisfying accuracy. Typical state-of-the-art ap-
proaches (Seeger et al. 2017; Seeger, Salinas, and Flunkert
2016), especially deep-learning methods (Yu et al. 2017; Qin
et al. 2017; Flunkert, Salinas, and Gasthaus 2017; Mukher-
jee et al. 2018; Wen et al. 2017), remain as a sequence
to sequence prediction paradigm with step-by-step process,
which have the following limitations: (i) Even though they
may achieve accurate prediction for one step forward, they
often suffer from accumulated error from the dynamic de-
coding, resulting in the large errors for LSTF problem (Liu
et al. 2019; Qin et al. 2017). The prediction accuracy decays
along with the increase of the predicted sequence length.
(ii) Due to the problem of vanishing gradient and memory
constraint (Sutskever, Vinyals, and Le 2014), most existing
methods cannot learn from the past behavior of the whole
history of the time-series. In our work, the Informer is de-
signed to address this two limitations.
Long sequence input problem From the above discus-
sion, we refer to the second limitation as to the long se-
quence time-series input (LSTI) problem. We will explore
related works and draw a comparison between our LSTF
problem. The researchers truncate / summarize / sample the
input sequence to handle a very long sequence in practice,
but valuable data may be lost in making accurate predictions.
Instead of modifying inputs, Truncated BPTT (Aicher, Foti,
and Fox 2019) only uses last time steps to estimate the gra-
dients in weight updates, and Auxiliary Losses (Trinh et al.
2018) enhance the gradients ﬂow by adding auxiliary gradi-
ents. Other attempts includes Recurrent Highway Networks
(Zilly et al. 2017) and Bootstrapping Regularizer (Cao and
Xu 2019). Theses methods try to improve the gradient ﬂows
in the recurrent network’s long path, but the performance is
limited with the sequence length growing in the LSTI prob-
lem. CNN-based methods (Stoller et al. 2019; Bai, Kolter,
and Koltun 2018) use the convolutional ﬁlter to capture the
long term dependency, and their receptive ﬁelds grow ex-
ponentially with the stacking of layers, which hurts the se-
quence alignment. In the LSTI problem, the main task is to
enhance the model’s capacity of receiving long sequence in-
puts and extract the long-range dependency from these in-
puts. But the LSTF problem seeks to enhance the model’s
prediction capacity of forecasting long sequence outputs,
which requires establishing the long-range dependency be-
tween outputs and inputs. Thus, the above methods are not
feasible for LSTF directly.
Attention model Bahdanau et al. ﬁrstly proposed the ad-
dictive attention (Bahdanau, Cho, and Bengio 2015) to im-
prove the word alignment of the encoder-decoder architec-
ture in the translation task. Then, its variant (Luong, Pham,
and Manning 2015) has proposed the widely used loca-
tion, general, and dot-product attention. The popular self-
attention based Transformer (Vaswani et al. 2017) has re-
cently been proposed as new thinking of sequence modeling
and has achieved great success, especially in the NLP ﬁeld.
The ability of better sequence alignment has been validated
by applying it to translation, speech, music, and image gen-
eration. In our work, the Informer takes advantage of its se-
quence alignment ability and makes it amenable to the LSTF
problem.
Transformer-based time-series model The most related
works (Song et al. 2018; Ma et al. 2019; Li et al. 2019) all
start from a trail on applying Transformer in time-series data
and fail in LSTF forecasting as they use the vanilla Trans-
former. And some other works (Child et al. 2019; Li et al.
2019) noticed the sparsity in self-attention mechanism and
we have discussed them in the main context.
Appendix B
The Uniform Input
Representation
The RNN models (Schuster and Paliwal 1997; Hochre-
iter and Schmidhuber 1997; Chung et al. 2014; Sutskever,
Vinyals, and Le 2014; Qin et al. 2017; Chang et al. 2018)
capture the time-series pattern by the recurrent structure it-
self and barely relies on time stamps. The vanilla trans-
former (Vaswani et al. 2017; Devlin et al. 2018) uses point-
wise self-attention mechanism and the time stamps serve as
local positional context. However, in the LSTF problem, the
ability to capture long-range independence requires global
information like hierarchical time stamps (week, month and
year) and agnostic time stamps (holidays, events). These
are hardly leveraged in canonical self-attention and conse-
quent query-key mismatches between the encoder and de-
coder bring underlying degradation on the forecasting per-
formance. We propose a uniform input representation to mit-
igate the issue, the Fig.(6) gives an intuitive overview.
Assuming we have t-th sequence input X t and p types
of global time stamps and the feature dimension after input
representation is dmodel. We ﬁrstly preserve the local context
by using a ﬁxed position embedding:
PE(pos,2j) = sin(pos/(2Lx)2j/dmodel)
PE(pos,2j+1) = cos(pos/(2Lx)2j/dmodel)
,
(7)
where j ∈{1, . . . , ⌊dmodel/2⌋}. Each global time stamp is
employed by a learnable stamp embeddings SE(pos) with
limited vocab size (up to 60, namely taking minutes as
the ﬁnest granularity). That is, the self-attention’s similarity
computation can have access to global context and the com-
putation consuming is affordable on long inputs. To align the
dimension, we project the scalar context xt
i into dmodel-dim
vector ut
i with 1-D convolutional ﬁlters (kernel width=3,
stride=1). Thus, we have the feeding vector
X t
feed[i] = αut
i+PE(Lx×(t−1)+i, )+
X
p
[SE(Lx×(t−1)+i)]p
, (8)
where i ∈{1, . . . , Lx}, and α is the factor balancing the
magnitude between the scalar projection and local/global
embeddings. We recommend α = 1 if the sequence input
has been normalized.
Position
Embeddings
P
E0
P
E1
P
E2
P
E3
P
E4
P
E5
P
E6
P
E7
Projection
u0
u1
u2
u3
u4
u5
u6
u7
Week
Embeddings
Week
E0
Week
E1
Month
Embeddings
Month
E0
Holiday
Embeddings
Week
E2
Week
E3
E0
E0
E0
H1
E1
E0
E0
H2
E2
H2
E2
Global Time Stamp
Local Time Stamp
Scalar
Figure 6: The input representation of Informer. The inputs’s
embedding consists of three separate parts, a scalar projec-
tion, the local time stamp (Position) and global time stamp
embeddings (Minutes, Hours, Week, Month, Holiday etc.).
Appendix C
The long tail distribution in
self-attention feature map
We have performed the vanilla Transformer on the ETTh1
dataset to investigate the distribution of self-attention fea-
ture map. We select the attention score of {Head1,Head7}
@ Layer1. The blue line in Fig.(7) forms a long tail distri-
bution, i.e. a few dot-product pairs contribute to the major
attention and others can be ignored.
Figure 7: The Softmax scores in the self-attention from a
4-layer canonical Transformer trained on ETTh1 dataset.
Appendix D
Details of the proof
Proof of Lemma 1
Proof. For the individual qi, we can relax the discrete
keys into the continuous d-dimensional variable, i.e. vec-
tor kj. The query sparsity measurement is deﬁned as the
M(qi, K) = ln PLK
j=1 eqik⊤
j /
√
d −
1
LK
PLK
j=1(qik⊤
j /
√
d).
Firstly, we look into the left part of the inequality. For
each query qi, the ﬁrst term of the M(qi, K) becomes the
log-sum-exp of the inner-product of a ﬁxed query qi and all
the keys , and we can deﬁne fi(K) = ln PLK
j=1 eqik⊤
j /
√
d.
From the Eq.(2) in the Log-sum-exp network(Calaﬁore,
Gaubert, and Possieri 2018) and the further analysis, the
function fi(K) is convex. Moreover, fi(K) add a linear
combination of kj makes the M(qi, K) to be the convex
function for a ﬁxed query. Then we can take the deriva-
tion of the measurement with respect to the individual vec-
tor kj as ∂M(qi,K)
∂kj
=
e
qik⊤
j /
√
d
PLK
j=1 e
qik⊤
j /
√
d · qi
√
d −
1
LK · qi
√
d. To
reach the minimum value, we let ⃗∇M(qi) = ⃗0 and the fol-
lowing condition is acquired as qik⊤
1 + ln LK = · · · =
qik⊤
j + ln LK = · · · = ln PLK
j=1 eqik⊤
j . Naturally, it re-
quires k1 = k2 = · · · = kLK, and we have the measure-
ment’s minimum as ln LK, i.e.
M(qi, K) ≥ln LK
.
(9)
Secondly, we look into the right part of the inequality. If
we select the largest inner-product maxj{qik⊤
j /
√
d}, it is
easy that
M(qi, K) = ln
LK
X
j=1
e
qik⊤
j
√
d −1
LK
LK
X
j=1
(qik⊤
j
√
d
)
≤ln(LK ·max
j
{qik⊤
j
√
d
})−1
LK
LK
X
j=1
(qik⊤
j
√
d
)
= ln LK +max
j
{qik⊤
j
√
d
}−1
LK
LK
X
j=1
(qik⊤
j
√
d
)
.
(10)
Combine the Eq.(14) and Eq.(15), we have the results of
Lemma 1. When the key set is the same with the query set,
the above discussion also holds.
Proposition 1. Assuming kj ∼N(µ, Σ) and we let qki
denote set {(qik⊤
j )/
√
d | j = 1, . . . , LK}, then ∀Mm =
maxi M(qi, K) there exist κ > 0 such that: in the interval
∀q1, q2 ∈{q|M(q, K) ∈[Mm, Mm −κ)}, if M(q1, K) >
M(q2, K) and Var(qk1) > Var(qk2), we have high prob-
ability that M(q1, K) > M(q2, K).
Proof of Proposition 1
Proof. To
make
the
further
discussion
simplify,
we
can
note
ai,j
=
qikT
j /
√
d,
thus
deﬁne
the
ar-
ray
Ai
=
[ai,1, · · · , ai,Lk].
Moreover,
we
denote
1
LK
PLK
j=1(qik⊤
j /
√
d) = mean(Ai), then we can denote
¯
M (qi, K) = max(Ai) −mean(Ai), i = 1, 2.
As for M (qi, K), we denote each component ai,j =
mean(Ai) + ∆ai,j, j = 1, · · · , Lk, then we have the fol-
lowing:
M (qi, K) = ln
LK
X
j=1
eqik⊤
j /
√
d −
1
LK
LK
X
j=1
(qik⊤
j /
√
d)
= ln(ΣLk
j=1emean(Ai)e∆ai,j) −mean(Ai)
= ln(emean(Ai)ΣLk
j=1e∆ai,j) −mean(Ai)
= ln(ΣLk
j=1e∆ai,j)
,
and it is easy to ﬁnd ΣLk
j=1∆ai,j = 0.
We deﬁne the function ES(Ai) = ΣLk
j=1 exp(∆ai,j),
equivalently deﬁnes Ai = [∆ai,1, · · · , ∆ai,Lk], and imme-
diately our proposition can be written as the equivalent form:
For ∀A1, A2, if
1. max(A1) −mean(A1) ≥max(A2) −mean(A2)
2. Var(A1) > Var(A2)
Then we rephrase the original conclusion into more
general form that ES(A1) > ES(A2) with high proba-
bility, and the probability have positive correlation with
Var(A1) −Var(A2).
Furthermore,
we
consider
a
ﬁne
case,
∀Mm
=
maxi M(qi, K) there exist κ > 0 such that in that interval
∀qi, qj ∈{q|M(q, K) ∈[Mm, Mm −κ)} if max(A1) −
mean(A1) ≥max(A2) −mean(A2) and Var(A1) >
Var(A2), we have high probability that M(q1, K)
>
M(q2, K),which is equivalent to ES(A1) > ES(A2).
In the original proposition, kj ∼N(µ, Σ) follows multi-
variate Gaussian distribution, which means that k1, · · · , kn
are I.I.D Gaussian distribution, thus deﬁned by the Wiener-
khinchin law of large Numbers, ai,j = qikT
j /
√
d is one-
dimension Gaussian distribution with the expectation of
0 if n
→
∞. So back to our deﬁnition, ∆a1,m
∼
N(0, σ2
1), ∆a2,m ∼N(0, σ2
2), ∀m ∈1, · · · , Lk, and our
proposition is equivalent to a lognormal-distribution sum
problem.
A lognormal-distribution sum problem is equivalent
to approximating the distribution of ES(A1) accurately,
whose history is well-introduced in the articles (Dufresne
2008),(Vargasguzman 2005). Approximating lognormality
of sums of lognormals is a well-known rule of thumb, and
no general PDF function can be given for the sums of log-
normals. However, (Romeo, Da Costa, and Bardou 2003)
and (Hcine and Bouallegue 2015) pointed out that in most
cases, sums of lognormals is still a lognormal distribution,
and by applying central limits theorem in (Beaulieu 2011),
we can have a good approximation that ES(A1) is a log-
normal distribution, and we have E(ES(A1)) = ne
σ2
1
2 ,
Var(ES(A1)) = neσ2
1(eσ2
1 −1). Equally, E(ES(A2)) =
ne
σ2
2
2 , Var(ES(A2)) = neσ2
2(eσ2
2 −1).
We denote B1 = ES(A1), B2 = ES(A2), and the proba-
bility Pr(B1 −B2 > 0) is the ﬁnal result of our proposition
in general conditions, with σ2
1 > σ2
2 WLOG. The difference
of lognormals is still a hard problem to solve.
By using the theorem given in(Lo 2012), which gives a
general approximation of the probability distribution on the
sums and difference for the lognormal distribution. Namely
S1 and S2 are two lognormal stochastic variables obeying
the stochastic differential equations dSi
Si = σidZi, i = 1, 2,
in which dZ1,2 presents a standard Weiner process associ-
ated with S1,2 respectively, and σ2
i = Var (ln Si), S± ≡
S1 ± S2,S±
0 ≡S10 ± S20. As for the joint probability dis-
tribution function P (S1, S2, t; S10, S20, t0), the value of S1
and S2 at time t > t0 are provided by their initial value
S10 and S20 at initial time t0. The Weiner process above is
equivalent to the lognormal distribution(Weiner and Solbrig
1984), and the conclusion below is written in general form
containing both the sum and difference of lognormal distri-
bution approximation denoting ± for sum + and difference
−respectively.
In boundary condition
¯P±
 S±, t; S10, S20, t0 −→t

= δ
 S10 ± S20 −S±
,
their closed-form probability distribution functions are given
by
f LN 
˜S±, t; ˜S±
0 , t0

=
1
eS±
q
2π˜σ2
± (t −t0)
· exp





−
h
ln

˜S+/ ˜S+
0

+ (1/2)˜σ2
± (t −t0)
i2
2˜σ2
± (t −t0)





.
It is an approximately normal distribution, and ˜S+, ˜S−are
lognormal random variables, ˜S±
0 are initial condition in t0
deﬁned by Weiner process above. (Noticed that ˜σ2
± (t −t0)
should be small to make this approximation valid.In our sim-
ulation experiment, we set t −t0 = 1 WLOG.) Since
eS−
0 = (S10 −S20) +

σ2
−
σ2
1 −σ2
2

(S10 + S20),
and
˜
σ−=
 σ2
1 −σ2
2

/ (2σ−)
σ−=
q
σ2
1 + σ2
2
Noticed that E(B1) > E(B2), Var(B1) > Var(B2), the
mean value and the variance of the approximate normal dis-
tribution shows positive correlation with σ2
1 −σ2
2.Besides,
the closed-form PDF f LN 
˜S±, t; ˜S±
0 , t0

also show pos-
itive correlation with σ2
1 −σ2
2. Due to the limitation of
˜σ2
± (t −t0) should be small enough, such positive correla-
tion is not signiﬁcant in our illustrative numerical experi-
ment.
By using Lie-Trotter Operator Splitting Method in (Lo
2012), we can give illustrative numeral examples for the
distribution of B1 −B2,in which the parameters are well
chosen to ﬁt for our top-u approximation in actual LLLT
experiments. Figure shows that it is of high probability
Figure 8: Probability Density verses S1 −S2 for the approx-
imation of shifted lognormal distribution.
that when σ2
1 > σ2
2, the inequality holds that B1 > B2,
ES(A1) > ES(A2).
Finishing prooving our proposition in general conditions,
we can consider a more speciﬁc condition that if q1, q2 ∈
{q|M(q, K) ∈[Mm, Mm −κ)}, the proposition still holds
with high probability.
First, we have M(q1, k)
=
ln(B1)
>
(Mm −κ)
holds for ∀q1, q2 in this interval. Since we have proved
that E(B1)) = ne
σ2
1
2 , we can conclude that ∀qi in the
given interval,∃α, σ2
i > α, i = 1, 2. Since we have eS−
0 =
(S10 −S20) +

σ2
−
σ2
1−σ2
2

(S10 + S20), which also shows
positive correlation with σ2
1 + σ2
2 > 2α, and positive cor-
relation with σ2
1 −σ2
2. So due to the nature of the ap-
proximate normal distribution PDF, if σ2
1 > σ2
2 WLOG,
Pr(M(q1, k) > M(q2, k)) ≈Φ(
eS−
0
˜
σ−) also shows positive
correlation with σ2
1 + σ2
2 > 2α.
We give an illustrative numerical examples of the approx-
imation above in Fig.(8). In our actual LTTnet experiment,
we choose Top-k of A1, A2, not the whole set.Actually,
we can make a naive assumption that in choosing top −
⌊1
4Lk⌋variables of A1, A2 denoted as A
′
1, A
′
2,the varia-
tion σ1, σ2 don’t change signiﬁcantly, but the expectation
E(A
′
1), E(A
′
2) ascends obviously, which leads to initial con-
dition S10, S20 ascends signiﬁcantly, since the initial condi-
tion will be sampled from top −⌊1
4Lk⌋variables, not the
whole set.
In our actual LTTnet experiment, we set U, namely choos-
ing around top −⌊1
4Lk⌋of A1 and A2, it is guaranteed
that with over 99% probability that in the [Mm, Mm −κ)
interval, as shown in the black curve of Fig.(8). Typically
the condition 2 can be relaxed, and we can believe that
if q1, q2 ﬁts the condition 1 in our proposition, we have
M(q1, K) > M(q2, K).
Appendix E
Reproducibility
Details of the experiments
The details of proposed Informer model is summarized in
Table 7. For the ProbSparse self-attention mechanism, we
let d=32, n=16 and add residual connections, a position-
wise feed-forward network layer (inner-layer dimension is
2048) and a dropout layer (p = 0.1) likewise. Note that we
preserves 10% validation data for each dataset, so all the
experiments are conducted over 5 random train/val shifting
selection along time and the results are averaged over the
5 runs. All the datasets are performed standardization such
that the mean of variable is 0 and the standard deviation is 1.
Table 7: The Informer network components in details
Encoder:
N
Inputs
1x3 Conv1d
Embedding (d = 512)
4
ProbSparse
Self-attention
Block
Multi-head ProbSparse Attention (h = 16, d = 32)
Add, LayerNorm, Dropout (p = 0.1)
Pos-wise FFN (dinner = 2048), GELU
Add, LayerNorm, Dropout (p = 0.1)
Distilling
1x3 conv1d, ELU
Max pooling (stride = 2)
Decoder:
N
Inputs
1x3 Conv1d
Embedding (d = 512)
2
Masked PSB
add Mask on Attention Block
Self-attention
Block
Multi-head Attention (h = 8, d = 64)
Add, LayerNorm, Dropout (p = 0.1)
Pos-wise FFN (dinner = 2048), GELU
Add, LayerNorm, Dropout (p = 0.1)
Final:
Outputs
FCN (d = dout)
Implement of the ProbSparse self-attention
We have implemented the ProbSparse self-attention in
Python 3.6 with Pytorch 1.0. The pseudo-code is given in
Algo.(1). The source code is available at https://github.com/
zhouhaoyi/Informer2020. All the procedure can be highly
efﬁcient vector operation and maintains logarithmic total
memory usage. The masked version can be achieved by ap-
plying positional mask on step 6 and using cmusum(·) in
mean(·) of step 7. In the practice, we can use sum(·) as the
simpler implement of mean(·).
Algorithm 1 ProbSparse self-attention
Require: Tensor Q ∈Rm×d, K ∈Rn×d, V ∈Rn×d
1: print set hyperparameter c, u = c ln m and U = m ln n
2: randomly select U dot-product pairs from K as ¯K
3: set the sample score ¯S = Q ¯K⊤
4: compute the measurement M = max(¯S) −mean(¯S) by row
5: set Top-u queries under M as ¯Q
6: set S1 = softmax( ¯QK⊤/
√
d) · V
7: set S0 = mean(V)
8: set S = {S1, S0} by their original rows accordingly
Ensure: self-attention feature map S.
The hyperparameter tuning range
For all methods, the input length of recurrent component is
chosen from {24, 48, 96, 168, 336, 720} for the ETTh1,
ETTh2, Weather and Electricity dataset, and chosen from
{24, 48, 96, 192, 288, 672} for the ETTm dataset. For
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
−1.75
−1.50
−1.25
−1.00
−0.75
−0.50
−0.25
0.00
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
Informer
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
Informer†
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
LogTrans
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
Reformer
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
DeepAR
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
LSTMa
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
ARIMA
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
ETTm1 Gro ndTr th
Prophet
Figure 9: The predicts (len=336) of Informer, Informer†, LogTrans, Reformer, DeepAR, LSTMa, ARIMA and Prophet on the
ETTm dataset. The red / blue curves stand for slices of the prediction / ground truth.
LSTMa and DeepAR, the size of hidden states is chosen
from {32, 64, 128, 256}. For LSTnet, the hidden dimen-
sion of the Recurrent layer and Convolutional layer is cho-
sen from {64, 128, 256} and {32, 64, 128} for Recurrent-
skip layer, and the skip-length of Recurrent-skip layer is set
as 24 for the ETTh1, ETTh2, Weather and ECL dataset, and
set as 96 for the ETTm dataset. For Informer, the layer of en-
coder is chosen from {6, 4, 3, 2} and the layer of decoder is
set as 2. The head number of multi-head attention is chosen
from {8, 16}, and the dimension of multi-head attention’s
output is set as 512. The length of encoder’s input sequence
and decoder’s start token is chosen from {24, 48, 96, 168,
336, 480, 720} for the ETTh1, ETTh2, Weather and ECL
dataset, and {24, 48, 96, 192, 288, 480, 672} for the ETTm
dataset. In the experiment, the decoder’s start token is a seg-
ment truncated from the encoder’s input sequence, so the
length of decoder’s start token must be less than the length
of encoder’s input.
The RNN-based methods perform a dynamic decoding
with left shifting on the prediction windows. Our proposed
methods Informer-series and LogTrans (our decoder) per-
form non-dynamic decoding.
Appendix F
Extra experimental results
Fig.(9) presents a slice of the predicts of 8 models. The most
realted work LogTrans and Reformer shows acceptable re-
sults. The LSTMa model is not amenable for the long se-
quence prediction task. The ARIMA and DeepAR can cap-
ture the long trend of the long sequences. And the Prophet
detects the changing point and ﬁts it with a smooth curve
better than the ARIMA and DeepAR. Our proposed model
Informer
and Informer† show signiﬁcantly better results
than above methods.
Appendix G
Computing Infrastructure
All the experiments are conducted on Nvidia Tesla V100
SXM2 GPUs (32GB memory). Other conﬁguration includes
2 * Intel Xeon Gold 6148 CPU, 384GB DDR4 RAM and 2
* 240GB M.2 SSD, which is sufﬁcient for all the baselines.
References
Aicher, C.; Foti, N. J.; and Fox, E. B. 2019. Adaptively Trun-
cating Backpropagation Through Time to Control Gradient
Bias. arXiv:1905.07473 .
Ariyo, A. A.; Adewumi, A. O.; and Ayo, C. K. 2014. Stock
price prediction using the ARIMA model. In The 16th In-
ternational Conference on Computer Modelling and Simu-
lation, 106–112. IEEE.
Bahdanau, D.; Cho, K.; and Bengio, Y. 2015. Neural Ma-
chine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Trans-
late. In ICLR 2015.
Bai, S.; Kolter, J. Z.; and Koltun, V. 2018. Convolutional
sequence modeling revisited. ICLR .
Beaulieu, N. C. 2011. An extended limit theorem for cor-
related lognormal sums. IEEE transactions on communica-
tions 60(1): 23–26.
Beltagy, I.; Peters, M. E.; and Cohan, A. 2020. Longformer:
The Long-Document Transformer. CoRR abs/2004.05150.
Box, G. E.; Jenkins, G. M.; Reinsel, G. C.; and Ljung, G. M.
2015. Time series analysis: forecasting and control. John
Wiley & Sons.
Brown, T. B.; Mann, B.; Ryder, N.; Subbiah, M.; Kaplan, J.;
Dhariwal, P.; Neelakantan, A.; Shyam, P.; Sastry, G.; Askell,
A.; Agarwal, S.; Herbert-Voss, A.; Krueger, G.; Henighan,
T.; Child, R.; Ramesh, A.; Ziegler, D. M.; Wu, J.; Winter,
C.; Hesse, C.; Chen, M.; Sigler, E.; Litwin, M.; Gray, S.;
Chess, B.; Clark, J.; Berner, C.; McCandlish, S.; Radford,
A.; Sutskever, I.; and Amodei, D. 2020. Language Models
are Few-Shot Learners. CoRR abs/2005.14165.
Calaﬁore, G. C.; Gaubert, S.; and Possieri, C. 2018. Log-
sum-exp neural networks and posynomial models for convex
and log-log-convex data. CoRR abs/1806.07850.
Cao, Y.; and Xu, P. 2019.
Better Long-Range Depen-
dency By Bootstrapping A Mutual Information Regularizer.
arXiv:1905.11978 .
Chang, Y.-Y.; Sun, F.-Y.; Wu, Y.-H.; and Lin, S.-D. 2018.
A Memory-Network Based Solution for Multivariate Time-
Series Forecasting. arXiv:1809.02105 .
Child, R.; Gray, S.; Radford, A.; and Sutskever, I. 2019.
Generating Long Sequences with Sparse Transformers.
arXiv:1904.10509 .
Cho, K.; van Merrienboer, B.; Bahdanau, D.; and Bengio,
Y. 2014.
On the Properties of Neural Machine Trans-
lation: Encoder-Decoder Approaches.
In Proceedings of
SSST@EMNLP 2014, 103–111.
Chung, J.; Gulcehre, C.; Cho, K.; and Bengio, Y. 2014. Em-
pirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on se-
quence modeling. arXiv:1412.3555 .
Clevert, D.; Unterthiner, T.; and Hochreiter, S. 2016. Fast
and Accurate Deep Network Learning by Exponential Lin-
ear Units (ELUs). In ICLR 2016.
Dai, Z.; Yang, Z.; Yang, Y.; Carbonell, J.; Le, Q. V.; and
Salakhutdinov, R. 2019. Transformer-xl: Attentive language
models beyond a ﬁxed-length context. arXiv:1901.02860 .
Devlin, J.; Chang, M.-W.; Lee, K.; and Toutanova, K. 2018.
Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for lan-
guage understanding. arXiv:1810.04805 .
Dufresne, D. 2008. Sums of lognormals. In Actuarial Re-
search Conference, 1–6.
Flunkert, V.; Salinas, D.; and Gasthaus, J. 2017. DeepAR:
Probabilistic forecasting with autoregressive recurrent net-
works. arXiv:1704.04110 .
Gupta, A.; and Rush, A. M. 2017.
Dilated convolu-
tions for modeling long-distance genomic dependencies.
arXiv:1710.01278 .
Hcine, M. B.; and Bouallegue, R. 2015. On the approxima-
tion of the sum of lognormals by a log skew normal distri-
bution. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03619 .
Hochreiter, S.; and Schmidhuber, J. 1997. Long short-term
memory. Neural computation 9(8): 1735–1780.
Kitaev, N.; Kaiser, L.; and Levskaya, A. 2019. Reformer:
The Efﬁcient Transformer. In ICLR.
Lai, G.; Chang, W.-C.; Yang, Y.; and Liu, H. 2018. Model-
ing long-and short-term temporal patterns with deep neural
networks. In ACM SIGIR 2018, 95–104. ACM.
Li, S.; Jin, X.; Xuan, Y.; Zhou, X.; Chen, W.; Wang, Y.-X.;
and Yan, X. 2019. Enhancing the Locality and Breaking the
Memory Bottleneck of Transformer on Time Series Fore-
casting. arXiv:1907.00235 .
Li, Y.; Yu, R.; Shahabi, C.; and Liu, Y. 2018. Diffusion Con-
volutional Recurrent Neural Network: Data-Driven Trafﬁc
Forecasting. In ICLR 2018.
Liu, Y.; Gong, C.; Yang, L.; and Chen, Y. 2019. DSTP-RNN:
a dual-stage two-phase attention-based recurrent neural net-
works for long-term and multivariate time series prediction.
CoRR abs/1904.07464.
Lo, C.-F. 2012. The sum and difference of two lognormal
random variables. Journal of Applied Mathematics 2012.
Luong, T.; Pham, H.; and Manning, C. D. 2015. Effective
Approaches to Attention-based Neural Machine Transla-
tion. In M`arquez, L.; Callison-Burch, C.; Su, J.; Pighin, D.;
and Marton, Y., eds., EMNLP, 1412–1421. The Association
for Computational Linguistics. doi:10.18653/v1/d15-1166.
URL https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/d15-1166.
Ma, J.; Shou, Z.; Zareian, A.; Mansour, H.; Vetro, A.;
and Chang, S.-F. 2019.
CDSA: Cross-Dimensional Self-
Attention for Multivariate, Geo-tagged Time Series Impu-
tation. arXiv:1905.09904 .
Matsubara, Y.; Sakurai, Y.; van Panhuis, W. G.; and Falout-
sos, C. 2014. FUNNEL: automatic mining of spatially coe-
volving epidemics. In ACM SIGKDD 2014, 105–114.
Mukherjee, S.; Shankar, D.; Ghosh, A.; Tathawadekar, N.;
Kompalli, P.; Sarawagi, S.; and Chaudhury, K. 2018. Ar-
mdn: Associative and recurrent mixture density networks for
eretail demand forecasting. arXiv:1803.03800 .
Papadimitriou, S.; and Yu, P. 2006. Optimal multi-scale pat-
terns in time series streams. In ACM SIGMOD 2006, 647–
658. ACM.
Qin, Y.; Song, D.; Chen, H.; Cheng, W.; Jiang, G.; and Cot-
trell, G. W. 2017. A Dual-Stage Attention-Based Recurrent
Neural Network for Time Series Prediction. In IJCAI 2017,
2627–2633.
Qiu, J.; Ma, H.; Levy, O.; Yih, S. W.-t.; Wang, S.; and Tang,
J. 2019. Blockwise Self-Attention for Long Document Un-
derstanding. arXiv:1911.02972 .
Rae, J. W.; Potapenko, A.; Jayakumar, S. M.; and Lillicrap,
T. P. 2019.
Compressive transformers for long-range se-
quence modelling. arXiv:1911.05507 .
Ray, W. 1990. Time series: theory and methods. Journal of
the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society)
153(3): 400–400.
Romeo, M.; Da Costa, V.; and Bardou, F. 2003. Broad distri-
bution effects in sums of lognormal random variables. The
European Physical Journal B-Condensed Matter and Com-
plex Systems 32(4): 513–525.
Schuster, M.; and Paliwal, K. K. 1997. Bidirectional recur-
rent neural networks. IEEE Transactions on Signal Process-
ing 45(11): 2673–2681.
Seeger, M.; Rangapuram, S.; Wang, Y.; Salinas, D.;
Gasthaus, J.; Januschowski, T.; and Flunkert, V. 2017.
Approximate bayesian inference in linear state space
models for intermittent demand forecasting at scale.
arXiv:1709.07638 .
Seeger, M. W.; Salinas, D.; and Flunkert, V. 2016. Bayesian
intermittent demand forecasting for large inventories.
In
NIPS, 4646–4654.
Song, H.; Rajan, D.; Thiagarajan, J. J.; and Spanias, A. 2018.
Attend and diagnose: Clinical time series analysis using at-
tention models. In AAAI 2018.
Stoller, D.; Tian, M.; Ewert, S.; and Dixon, S. 2019. Seq-
U-Net: A One-Dimensional Causal U-Net for Efﬁcient Se-
quence Modelling. arXiv:1911.06393 .
Sutskever, I.; Vinyals, O.; and Le, Q. V. 2014. Sequence
to sequence learning with neural networks. In NIPS, 3104–
3112.
Taylor, S. J.; and Letham, B. 2018. Forecasting at scale. The
American Statistician 72(1): 37–45.
Trinh, T. H.; Dai, A. M.; Luong, M.-T.; and Le, Q. V. 2018.
Learning longer-term dependencies in rnns with auxiliary
losses. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.00144 .
Tsai, Y.-H. H.; Bai, S.; Yamada, M.; Morency, L.-P.; and
Salakhutdinov, R. 2019. Transformer Dissection: An Uni-
ﬁed Understanding for Transformer’s Attention via the Lens
of Kernel. In ACL 2019, 4335–4344.
Vargasguzman, J. A. 2005. Change of Support of Transfor-
mations: Conservation of Lognormality Revisited. Mathe-
matical Geosciences 37(6): 551–567.
Vaswani, A.; Shazeer, N.; Parmar, N.; Uszkoreit, J.; Jones,
L.; Gomez, A. N.; Kaiser, Ł.; and Polosukhin, I. 2017. At-
tention is all you need. In NIPS, 5998–6008.
Wang, S.; Li, B.; Khabsa, M.; Fang, H.; and Ma, H.
2020. Linformer: Self-Attention with Linear Complexity.
arXiv:2006.04768 .
Weiner, J.; and Solbrig, O. T. 1984. The meaning and mea-
surement of size hierarchies in plant populations. Oecologia
61(3): 334–336.
Wen, R.; Torkkola, K.; Narayanaswamy, B.; and Madeka,
D. 2017.
A multi-horizon quantile recurrent forecaster.
arXiv:1711.11053 .
Yu, F.; Koltun, V.; and Funkhouser, T. 2017. Dilated residual
networks. In CVPR, 472–480.
Yu, R.; Zheng, S.; Anandkumar, A.; and Yue, Y. 2017. Long-
term forecasting using tensor-train rnns. arXiv:1711.00073
.
Zhu, Y.; and Shasha, D. E. 2002.
StatStream: Statistical
Monitoring of Thousands of Data Streams in Real Time. In
VLDB 2002, 358–369.
Zilly, J. G.; Srivastava, R. K.; Koutn´ık, J.; and Schmidhuber,
J. 2017. Recurrent highway networks. In ICML, 4189–4198.
