Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time
Series Forecasting
Kashif Rasul 1 Calvin Seward 1 Ingmar Schuster 1 Roland Vollgraf 1
Abstract
In this work, we propose TimeGrad, an autore-
gressive model for multivariate probabilistic time
series forecasting which samples from the data
distribution at each time step by estimating its gra-
dient. To this end, we use diffusion probabilistic
models, a class of latent variable models closely
connected to score matching and energy-based
methods. Our model learns gradients by optimiz-
ing a variational bound on the data likelihood and
at inference time converts white noise into a sam-
ple of the distribution of interest through a Markov
chain using Langevin sampling. We demonstrate
experimentally that the proposed autoregressive
denoising diffusion model is the new state-of-the-
art multivariate probabilistic forecasting method
on real-world data sets with thousands of corre-
lated dimensions. We hope that this method is a
useful tool for practitioners and lays the founda-
tion for future research in this area.
1. Introduction
Classical time series forecasting methods such as those
in (Hyndman & Athanasopoulos, 2018) typically provide
univariate point forecasts, require hand-tuned features to
model seasonality, and are trained individually on each time
series. Deep learning based time series models (Benidis
et al., 2020) are popular alternatives due to their end-to-end
training of a global model, ease of incorporating exogenous
covariates, and automatic feature extraction abilities. The
task of modeling uncertainties is of vital importance for
downstream problems that use these forecasts for (business)
decision making. More often the individual time series
for a problem data set are statistically dependent on each
other. Ideally, deep learning models need to incorporate
this inductive bias in the form of multivariate (Tsay, 2014)
probabilistic methods to provide accurate forecasts.
1Zalando Research, M¨uhlenstraße 25, 10243 Berlin, Germany.
Correspondence to: Kashif Rasul <kashif.rasul@zalando.de>.
To model the full predictive distribution, methods typically
resort to tractable distribution classes or some type of low-
rank approximations, regardless of the true data distribution.
To model the distribution in a general fashion, one needs
probabilistic methods with tractable likelihoods. Till now
several deep learning methods have been proposed for this
purpose such as autoregressive (van den Oord et al., 2016c)
or generative ones based on normalizing ﬂows (Papamakar-
ios et al., 2019) which can learn ﬂexible models of high
dimensional multivariate time series. Even if the full likeli-
hood is not be tractable, one can often optimize a tractable
lower bound to the likelihood. But still, these methods re-
quire a certain structure in the functional approximators, for
example on the determinant of the Jacobian (Dinh et al.,
2017) for normalizing ﬂows. Energy-based models (EBM)
(Hinton, 2002; LeCun et al., 2006) on the other hand have
a much less restrictive functional form. They approximate
the unnormalized log-probability so that density estimation
reduces to a non-linear regression problem. EBMs have
been shown to perform well in learning high dimensional
data distributions at the cost of being difﬁcult to train (Song
& Kingma, 2021).
In this work, we propose autoregressive EBMs to solve the
multivariate probabilistic time series forecasting problem
via a model we call TimeGrad and show that not only are
we able to train such a model with all the inductive biases
of probabilistic time series forecasting, but this model per-
forms exceptionally well when compared to other modern
methods. This autoregressive-EBM combination retains the
power of autoregressive models, such as good performance
in extrapolation into the future, with the ﬂexibility of EBMs
as a general purpose high-dimensional distribution model,
while remaining computationally tractable.
The paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we ﬁrst set
up the notation and detail the EBM of (Ho et al., 2020)
which forms the basis of our per time-step distribution
model. Section 3 introduces the multivariate probabilis-
tic time series problem and we detail the TimeGrad model.
The experiments with extensive results are detailed in Sec-
tion 4. We cover related work in Section 5 and conclude
with some discussion in Section 6.
arXiv:2101.12072v2  [cs.LG]  2 Feb 2021
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
2. Diffusion Probabilistic Model
Let x0 ∼qX (x0) denote the multivariate training vector
from some input space X = RD and let pθ(x0) denote the
probability density function (PDF) which aims to approxi-
mate qX (x0) and allows for easy sampling. Diffusion mod-
els (Sohl-Dickstein et al., 2015) are latent variable models of
the form pθ(x0) :=
R
pθ(x0:N) dx1:N, where x1, . . . , xN
are latents of dimension RD. Unlike in variational autoen-
coders (Kingma & Welling, 2019) the approximate posterior
q(x1:N|x0),
q(x1:N|x0) = ΠN
n=1q(xn|xn−1)
is not trainable but ﬁxed to a Markov chain (called the
forward process) that gradually adds Gaussian noise to the
signal:
q(xn|xn−1) := N(xn;
p
1 −βnxn−1, βnI).
The forward process uses an increasing variance sched-
ule β1, . . . , βN with βn ∈(0, 1). The joint distribution
pθ(x0:N) is called the reverse process, and is deﬁned as
a Markov chain with learned Gaussian transitions starting
with p(xN) = N(xN; 0, I), where each subsequent transi-
tion of
pθ(x0:N) := p(xN)Π1
n=Npθ(xn−1|xn)
is given by a parametrization of our choosing denoted by
pθ(xn−1|xn) := N(xn−1; µθ(xn, n), Σθ(xn, n)I),
(1)
with shared parameters θ. Both µθ : RD × N →RD and
Σθ : RD × N →R+ take two inputs, namely the variable
xn ∈RD as well as the noise index n ∈N. The goal of
pθ(xn−1|xn) is to eliminate the Gaussian noise added in
the diffusion process. The parameters θ are learned to ﬁt
the data distribution qX (x0) by minimizing the negative log-
likelihood via a variational bound using Jensen’s inequality:
min
θ
Eq(x0)[−log pθ(x0)] ≤
min
θ
Eq(x0:N)[−log pθ(x0:N) + log q(x1:N|x0)].
This upper bound can be shown to be equal to
min
θ
Eq(x0:N)
"
−log p(xN) −
N
X
n=1
log pθ(xn−1|xn)
q(xn|xn−1)
#
.
(2)
As shown by (Ho et al., 2020), a property of the forward
process is that it admits sampling xn at any arbitrary noise
level n in closed form, since if αn := 1 −βn and ¯αn :=
Πn
i=1αi its cumulative product, we have:
q(xn|x0) = N(xn; √¯αnx0, (1 −¯αn)I).
(3)
By using the fact that these processes are Markov chains,
the objective in (2) can be written as the KL-divergence
between Gaussian distributions:
−log pθ(x0|x1) + DKL(q(xN|x0)||p(xN))
+
N
X
n=2
DKL(q(xn−1|xn, x0)||pθ(xn−1|xn)),
(4)
and (Ho et al., 2020) shows that by the property (3) the
forward process posterior in these KL divergences when
conditioned on x0, i.e. q(xn−1|xn, x0) are tractable given
by
q(xn−1|xn, x0) = N(xn−1; ˜µn(xn, x0), ˜βnI),
where
˜µn(xn, x0) :=
√¯αn−1βn
1 −¯αn
x0 +
√αn(1 −¯αn−1)
1 −¯αn
xn
and
˜βn := 1 −¯αn−1
1 −¯αn
βn.
(5)
Further, (Ho et al., 2020) shows that the KL-divergence
between Gaussians can be written as:
DKL(q(xn−1|xn, x0)||pθ(xn−1|xn)) =
Eq
 1
2Σθ
∥˜µn(xn, x0) −µθ(xn, n)∥2

+ C,
(6)
where C is a constant which does not depend on θ. So
instead of a parametrization (1) of pθ that predicts ˜µ, one can
instead use the property (3) to write xn(x0, ϵ) = √¯αnx0 +
√1 −¯αnϵ for ϵ ∼N(0, I) and the formula for ˜µ to obtain
that µθ must predict (xn −βnϵ/√1 −¯αn)/√αn, but since
xn is available to the network, we can choose:
µθ(xn, n) =
1
√αn

xn −
βn
√1 −¯αn
ϵθ(xn, n)

,
where ϵθ is a network which predicts ϵ ∼N(0, I) from xn,
so that the objective simpliﬁes to:
Ex0,ϵ

β2
n
2Σθαn(1 −¯αn)∥ϵ −ϵθ(√¯αnx0 +
√
1 −¯αnϵ, n)∥2

(7)
resembling the loss in Noise Conditional Score Networks
(Song & Ermon, 2019; 2020) using score matching. Once
trained, to sample from the reverse process xn−1
∼
pθ(xn−1|xn) (1) we can compute
xn−1 =
1
√αn

xn −
βn
√1 −¯αn
ϵθ(xn, n)

+
p
Σθz
where z ∼N(0, I) for n = N, . . . , 2 and z = 0 when
n = 1.
The full sampling procedure for x0, starting
from white noise sample xN, resembles Langevin dynamics
where we sample from the most noise-perturbed distribution
and reduce the magnitude of the noise scale until we reach
the smallest one.
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
3. TimeGrad Method
We denote the entities of a multivariate time series by x0
i,t ∈
R for i ∈{1, . . . , D} where t is the time index. Thus the
multivariate vector at time t is given by x0
t ∈RD. We are
tasked with predicting the multivariate distribution some
given prediction time steps into the future and so in what
follows consider time series with t ∈[1, T], sampled from
the complete time series history of the training data, where
we will split this contiguous sequence into a context window
of size [1, t0) and prediction interval [t0, T], reminiscent
of seq-to-seq models (Sutskever et al., 2014) in language
modeling.
In the univariate probabilistic DeepAR model (Salinas et al.,
2019b), the log-likelihood of each entity x0
i,t at a time step
t ∈[t0, T] is maximized over an individual time series’
prediction window. This is done with respect to the param-
eters of some chosen distributional model via the state of
an RNN derived from its previous time step x0
i,t−1 and its
corresponding covariates ci,t−1. The emission distribution
model, which is typically Gaussian for real-valued data or
negative binomial for count data, is selected to best match
the statistics of the time series and the network incorporates
activation functions that satisfy the constraints of the dis-
tribution’s parameters, e.g. a softplus() for the scale
parameter of the Gaussian.
A straightforward time series model for multivariate real-
valued data could use a factorizing output distribution in-
stead. Shared parameters can then learn patterns across the
individual time series entities through the temporal com-
ponent — but the model falls short of capturing dependen-
cies in the emissions of the model. For this, a full joint
distribution at each time step has to be modeled, for exam-
ple by using a multivariate Gaussian. However, modeling
the full covariance matrix not only increases the number
of parameters of the neural network by O(D2), making
learning difﬁcult but computing the loss is O(D3) making
it impractical. Furthermore, statistical dependencies for
such distributions would be limited to second-order effects.
Approximating Gaussians with low-rank covariance matri-
ces do work however and these models are referred to as
Vec-LSTM in (Salinas et al., 2019a).
Instead, in this work we propose TimeGrad which aims to
learn a model of the conditional distribution of the future
time steps of a multivariate time series given its past and
covariates as:
qX (x0
t0:T |x0
1:t0−1, c1:T ) = ΠT
t=t0qX (x0
t|x0
1:t−1, c1:T ),
(8)
were we assume that the covariates are known for all the
time points and each factor is learned via a conditional
denoising diffusion model introduced above. To model the
temporal dynamics we employ the autoregressive recurrent
Algorithm 1 Training for each time series step t ∈[t0, T]
Input: data x0
t ∼qX (x0
t) and state ht−1
repeat
Initialize n ∼Uniform(1, . . . , N) and ϵ ∼N(0, I)
Take gradient step on
∇θ∥ϵ −ϵθ(√¯αnx0
t +
√
1 −¯αnϵ, ht−1, n)∥2
until converged
neural network (RNN) architecture from (Graves, 2013;
Sutskever et al., 2014) which utilizes the LSTM (Hochreiter
& Schmidhuber, 1997) or GRU (Chung et al., 2014) to
encode the time series sequence up to time point t, given
the covariates ct, via the updated hidden state ht:
ht = RNNθ(concat(x0
t, ct), ht−1),
(9)
where RNNθ is a multi-layer LSTM or GRU parameterized
by shared weights θ and h0 = 0. Thus we can approximate
(8) by the model
ΠT
t=t0pθ(x0
t|ht−1),
(10)
where now θ comprises the weights of the RNN as well as
denoising diffusion model. This model is autoregressive as
it consumes the observations at the time step t −1 as input
to learn the distribution of, or sample, the next time step as
shown in Figure 1.
3.1. Training
Training is performed by randomly sampling context and
adjoining prediction sized windows from the training time
series data and optimizing the parameters θ that minimize
the negative log-likelihood of the model (10):
T
X
t=t0
−log pθ(x0
t|ht−1),
starting with the hidden state ht0−1 obtained by running the
RNN on the chosen context window. Via a similar derivation
as in the previous section, we have that the conditional
variant of the objective (4) for time step t and noise index
n is given by the following simpliﬁcation of (7) (Ho et al.,
2020):
Ex0
t ,ϵ,n

∥ϵ −ϵθ(√¯αnx0
t +
√
1 −¯αnϵ, ht−1, n)∥2
,
when we choose the variance in (1) to be Σθ = ˜βn (5),
where now the ϵθ network is also conditioned on the hidden
state. Algorithm 1 is the training procedure for each time
step in the prediction window using this objective.
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
x0
t
xN
t
ht−2
ht−1
x0
t−1
ct−1
…
…
RNN
xn−1
t
xn
t
pθ(xn−1
t
|xn
t , ht−1)
…
…
q(xn
t |xn−1
t
)
Figure 1. TimeGrad schematic: an RNN conditioned diffusion
probabilistic model at some time t −1 depicting the ﬁxed forward
process that adds Gaussian noise and the learned reverse processes.
Algorithm 2 Sampling x0
t via annealed Langevin dynamics
Input: noise xN
t ∼N(0, I) and state ht−1
for n = N to 1 do
if n > 1 then
z ∼N(0, I)
else
z = 0
end if
xn−1
t
=
1
√αn (xn
t −
βn
√1−¯αn ϵθ(xn
t , ht−1, n)) + √Σθz
end for
Return: x0
t
3.2. Inference
After training, we wish to predict for each time series in our
data set some prediction steps into the future and compare
with the corresponding test set time series. As in training,
we run the RNN over the last context sized window of the
training set to obtain the hidden state hT via (9). Then
we follow the sampling procedure in Algorithm 2 to obtain
a sample x0
T +1 of the next time step, which we can pass
autoregressively to the RNN together with the covariates
cT +1 to obtain the next hidden state hT +1 and repeat until
the desired forecast horizon has been reached. This process
of sampling trajectories from the “warm-up” state hT can
be repeated many times (e.g. S = 100) to obtain empirical
quantiles of the uncertainty of our predictions.
3.3. Scaling
In real-world data, the magnitudes of different time series
entities can vary drastically. To normalize scales, we divide
each time series entity by their context window mean (or 1
if it’s zero) before feeding it into the model. At inference,
the samples are then multiplied by the same mean values to
match the original scale. This rescaling technique simpliﬁes
the problem for the model, which is reﬂected in signiﬁcantly
improved empirical performance as shown in (Salinas et al.,
2019b). The other method of a short-cut connection from
the input to the output of the function approximator, as done
in the multivariate point forecasting method LSTNet (Lai
et al., 2018), is not applicable here.
3.4. Covariates
We employ embeddings for categorical features (Charring-
ton, 2018), that allows for relationships within a category,
or its context, to be captured when training time series mod-
els. Combining these embeddings as features for forecasting
yields powerful models like the ﬁrst place winner of the Kag-
gle Taxi Trajectory Prediction1 challenge (De Br´ebisson
et al., 2015). The covariates ct we use are composed of
time-dependent (e.g. day of week, hour of day) and time-
independent embeddings, if applicable, as well as lag fea-
tures depending on the time frequency of the data set we are
training on. All covariates are thus known for the periods
we wish to forecast.
4. Experiments
We benchmark TimeGrad on six real-world data sets and
evaluate against several competitive baselines. The source
code of the model will be made available after the review
process.
4.1. Evaluation Metric and Data Set
For evaluation, we compute the Continuous Ranked Proba-
bility Score (CRPS) (Matheson & Winkler, 1976) on each
time series dimension, as well as on the sum of all time
series dimensions (the latter denoted by CRPSsum). CRPS
measures the compatibility of a cumulative distribution func-
tion F with an observation x as
CRPS(F, x) =
Z
R
(F(z) −I{x ≤z})2 dz,
where I{x ≤z} is the indicator function which is one if
x ≤z and zero otherwise. CRPS is a proper scoring func-
tion, hence CRPS attains its minimum when the predictive
distribution F and the data distribution are equal. Employ-
ing the empirical CDF of F, i.e. ˆF(z) = 1
S
PS
s=1 I{Xs ≤
z} with S samples Xs ∼F as a natural approxima-
tion of the predictive CDF, CRPS can be directly com-
puted from simulated samples of the conditional distribu-
tion (8) at each time point (Jordan et al., 2019). Finally,
CRPSsum is obtained by ﬁrst summing across the D time-
series — both for the ground-truth data, and sampled data
(yielding ˆFsum(t) for each time point). The results are
1https://www.kaggle.com/c/
pkdd-15-predict-taxi-service-trajectory-i
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
Table 1. Dimension, domain, frequency, total training time steps
and prediction length properties of the training data sets used in
the experiments.
DATA SET
DIM.
D
DOM.
FREQ.
TIME
STEPS
PRED.
STEPS
EX C H A N G E
8
R+
DAY
6, 071
30
SO L A R
137
R+
HOUR
7, 009
24
EL E C.
370
R+
HOUR
5, 833
24
TR A F F I C
963
(0, 1)
HOUR
4, 001
24
TA X I
1, 214
N
30-MIN
1, 488
24
WI K I.
2, 000
N
DAY
792
30
then averaged over the prediction horizon, i.e. formally
CRPSsum = Et
h
CRPS

ˆFsum(t), P
i x0
i,t
i
. As proved
in (de B´ezenac et al., 2020) CRPSsum is also a proper
scoring function and we use it, instead of likelihood based
metrics, since not all methods we compare against yield
analytical forecast distributions or likelihoods are not mean-
ingfully deﬁned.
For our experiments we use Exchange (Lai et al., 2018),
Solar (Lai et al., 2018), Electricity2, Traffic3,
Taxi4 and Wikipedia5 open data sets, preprocessed ex-
actly as in (Salinas et al., 2019a), with their properties listed
in Table 1. As can be noted in the table, we do not need to
normalize scales for Traffic.
4.2. Model Architecture
We train TimeGrad via SGD using Adam (Kingma & Ba,
2015) with learning rate of 1 × 10−3 on the training split of
each data set with N = 100 diffusion steps using a linear
variance schedule starting from β1 = 1 × 10−4 till βN =
0.1. We construct batches of size 64 by taking random
windows (with possible overlaps), with the context size set
to the number of prediction steps, from the total time steps
of each data set (see Table 1). For testing we use a rolling
windows prediction starting from the last context window
history before the start of the prediction and compare it
to the ground-truth in the test set by sampling S = 100
trajectories.
The RNN consists of 2 layers of an LSTM with the hid-
den state ht ∈R40 and we encode the noise index n ∈
{1, . . . , N} using the Transformer’s (Vaswani et al., 2017)
2https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/
ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014
3https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/
PEMS-SF
4https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/
tlc-trip-record-data.page
5https://github.com/mbohlkeschneider/
gluon-ts/tree/mv_release/datasets
Fourier positional embeddings, with Nmax = 500, into R32
vectors. The network ϵθ consists of conditional 1-dim di-
lated ConvNets with residual connections adapted from the
WaveNet (van den Oord et al., 2016a) and DiffWave
(Kong et al., 2021) models. Figure 2 shows the schematics
of a single residual block i = {0, . . . , 7} together with the
ﬁnal output from the sum of all the 8 skip-connections. All,
but the last, convolutional network layers have an output
channel size of 8 and we use a bidirectional dilated convo-
lution in each block i by setting its dilation to 2i%2. We use
a validation set from the training data of the same size as
the test set to tune the number of epochs for early stopping.
All experiments run on a single Nvidia V100 GPU with
16GB of memory.
ht−1
n
Conv1x1 
ReLU
Noise 
Emb.
Conv1x1
+
+
Gated 
act. 
unit
xn
t
Dilated 
Conv1d
+
FC 
Upsampler
Conv1x1 
ReLU
Conv1x1 
ReLU
Residual block i
to 
block 
i + 1
+
Conv1d 
ReLU
Conv1d
ϵθ
out=residual_channels
out=1
out=residual_channels
out=residual_channels
out=residual_channels
out=residual_channels 
dilation=2**(i%2)
out=residual_channels
residual_layers
FC
out=residual_channels
out=D
Figure 2. The
network
architecture
of
ϵθ
consisting
of
residual layers
=
8 conditional residual blocks with
the Gated Activation Unit σ(·) ⊙tanh(·) from (van den Oord
et al., 2016b); whose skip-connection outputs are summed up to
compute the ﬁnal output. Conv1x1 and Conv1d are 1D convo-
lutional layers with ﬁlter size of 1 and 3, respectively, circular
padding so that the spatial size remains D, and all but the last con-
volutional layer has output channels residual channels = 8.
FC are linear layers used to up/down-sample the input to the
appropriate size for broadcasting.
4.3. Results
Using the CRPSsum as an evaluation metric, we compare
test time predictions of TimeGrad to a wide range of ex-
isting methods including classical multivariate methods:
• VAR (L¨utkepohl, 2007) a mutlivariate linear vector
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
Table 2. Test set CRPSsum comparison (lower is better) of models on six real world data sets. Mean and standard error metrics for
TimeGrad obtained by re-training and evaluating 10 times.
Method
Exchange
Solar
Electricity
Traffic
Taxi
Wikipedia
VES
0.005±0.000
0.9±0.003
0.88±0.0035
0.35±0.0023
-
-
VAR
0.005±0.000
0.83±0.006
0.039±0.0005
0.29±0.005
-
-
VAR-Lasso
0.012±0.0002
0.51±0.006
0.025±0.0002
0.15±0.002
-
3.1±0.004
GARCH
0.023±0.000
0.88±0.002
0.19±0.001
0.37±0.0016
-
-
KVAE
0.014±0.002
0.34±0.025
0.051±0.019
0.1±0.005
-
0.095±0.012
Vec-LSTM
ind-scaling
0.008±0.001
0.391±0.017
0.025±0.001
0.087±0.041
0.506±0.005
0.133±0.002
Vec-LSTM
lowrank-Copula
0.007±0.000
0.319±0.011
0.064±0.008
0.103±0.006
0.326±0.007
0.241±0.033
GP
scaling
0.009±0.000
0.368±0.012
0.022±0.000
0.079±0.000
0.183±0.395
1.483±1.034
GP
Copula
0.007±0.000
0.337±0.024
0.0245±0.002
0.078±0.002
0.208±0.183
0.086±0.004
Transformer
MAF
0.005±0.003
0.301±0.014
0.0207±0.000
0.056±0.001
0.179±0.002
0.063±0.003
TimeGrad
0.006±0.001
0.287±0.02
0.0206±0.001
0.044±0.006
0.114±0.02
0.0485±0.002
auto-regressive model with lags corresponding to the
periodicity of the data,
• VAR-Lasso a Lasso regularized VAR,
• GARCH (van der Weide, 2002) a multivariate condi-
tional heteroskedastic model and
• VES a innovation state space model (Hyndman et al.,
2008);
as well as deep learning based methods namely:
• KVAE (Fraccaro et al., 2017) a variational autoencoder
to represent the data on top of a linear state space model
which describes the dynamics,
• Vec-LSTM-ind-scaling (Salinas et al., 2019a)
which models the dynamics via an RNN and outputs
the parameters of an independent Gaussian distribution
with mean-scaling,
• Vec-LSTM-lowrank-Copula
(Salinas
et
al.,
2019a) which instead parametrizes a low-rank plus
diagonal covariance via Copula process,
• GP-scaling (Salinas et al., 2019a) which unrolls
an LSTM with scaling on each individual time series
before reconstructing the joint distribution via a low-
rank Gaussian,
• GP-Copula (Salinas et al., 2019a) which unrolls an
LSTM on each individual time series and then the
joint emission distribution is given by a low-rank plus
diagonal covariance Gaussian copula and
• Transformer-MAF (Rasul et al., 2021) which uses
Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) to model the tem-
poral conditioning and Masked Autoregressive Flow
(Papamakarios et al., 2017) for the distribution emis-
sion model.
Table 2 lists the corresponding CRPSsum values averaged
over 10 independent runs together with their empirical stan-
dard deviations and shows that the TimeGrad model sets
the new state-of-the-art on all but the smallest of the bench-
mark data sets. Note that ﬂow based models must apply con-
tinuous transformations onto a continuously connected dis-
tribution, making it difﬁcult to model disconnected modes.
Flow models assign spurious density to connections between
these modes leading to potential inaccuracies. Similarly the
generator network in variational autoencoders must learn to
map from some continuous space to a possibly disconnected
space which might not be possible to learn. In contrast
EMBs do not suffer from these issues (Du & Mordatch,
2019).
4.4. Ablation
The length N of the forward process is a crucial hyper-
parameter, as a bigger N allows the reverse process to
be approximately Gaussian (Sohl-Dickstein et al., 2015)
which assists the Gaussian parametrization (1) to approx-
imate it better.
We evaluate to which extent, if any at
all, larger N affects prediction performance, with an ab-
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
lation study where we record the test set CRPSsum of the
Electricity data set for different total diffusion pro-
cess lengths N = 2, 4, 8, . . . , 256 while keeping all other
hyperparemeters unchanged. The results are then plotted in
Figure 3 where we note that N can be reduced down to ≈10
without signiﬁcant performance loss. An optimal value is
achieved at N ≈100 and larger levels are not beneﬁcial if
all else is kept ﬁxed.
101
102
N
10
1
CRPS-SUM
Electricity
Figure 3. TimeGrad test set CRPSsum for Electricity data
by varying total diffusion length N. Good performance is estab-
lished already at N ≈10 with optimal value at N ≈100. The
mean and standard errors obtained over 5 independent runs. We
see similar behaviour with other data sets.
To highlight the predictions of TimeGrad we show in Fig-
ure 4 the predicted median, 50% and 90% distribution in-
tervals of the ﬁrst 6 dimensions of the full 963 dimensional
multivariate forecast of the Traffic benchmark.
5. Related Work
5.1. Energy-Based Methods
The EBM of (Ho et al., 2020) that we adapt is based on
methods that learn the gradient of the log-density with re-
spect to the inputs, called Stein Score function (Hyv¨arinen,
2005; Vincent, 2011), and at inference time use this gradient
estimate via Langevin dynamics to sample from the model
of this complicated data distribution (Song & Ermon, 2019).
These models achieve impressive results for image genera-
tion (Ho et al., 2020; Song & Ermon, 2020) when trained
in an unsupervised fashion without requiring adversarial
optimization. By perturbing the data using multiple noise
scales, the learnt Score network captures both coarse and
ﬁne-grained data features.
The closest related work to TimeGrad is in the recent
non-autoregressive conditional methods for high ﬁdelity
waveform generation (Chen et al., 2021; Kong et al., 2021).
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
0.030
0.035
observations
median prediction
90.0% prediction interval
50.0% prediction interval
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
00:00
15-Jun
2008
00:00
16-Jun
18:00
06:00
12:00
18:00
06:00
12:00
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Figure 4. TimeGrad prediction intervals and test set ground-truth
for Traffic data of the ﬁrst 6 of 963 dimensions from ﬁrst
rolling-window. Note that neighboring entities have an order of
magnitude difference in scales.
Although these methods learn the distribution of vector val-
ued data via denoising diffusion methods, as done here, they
do not consider its temporal development. Also neighbor-
ing dimensions of waveform data are highly correlated and
have a uniform scale, which is not necessarily true for mul-
tivariate time series problems where neighboring entities
occur arbitrarily (but in a ﬁxed order) and can have different
scales. (Du & Mordatch, 2019) also use EBMs to model
one and multiple steps for a trajectory modeling task in an
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
non-autoregressive fashion.
5.2. Time Series Forecasting
Neural time series methods have recently become popular
ways of solving the prediction problem via univariate point
forecasting methods (Oreshkin et al., 2020; Smyl, 2020) or
univariate probabilistic methods (Salinas et al., 2019b). In
the multivariate setting we also have point forecasting meth-
ods (Lai et al., 2018; Li et al., 2019) as well as probabilistic
methods, like this method, which explicitly model the data
distribution using Gaussian copulas (Salinas et al., 2019a),
GANs (Yoon et al., 2019), or normalizing ﬂows (de B´ezenac
et al., 2020; Rasul et al., 2021). Bayesian neural networks
can also be used to provide epistemic uncertainty in fore-
casts as well as detect distributional shifts (Zhu & Laptev,
2018), although these methods often do not perform as well
empirically (Wenzel et al., 2020).
6. Conclusion and Future Work
We have presented TimeGrad, a versatile multivariate
probabilistic time series forecasting method that leverages
the exceptional performance of EBMs to learn and sample
from the distribution of the next time step, autoregressivly.
Analysis of TimeGrad on six commonly used time se-
ries benchmarks establishes the new state-of-the-art against
competitive methods.
We note that while training TimeGrad we do not need to
loop over the EBM function approximator ϵθ, unlike in the
normalizing ﬂow setting where we have multiple stacks of
bijections. However while sampling we do loop N times
over ϵθ. A possible strategy to improve sampling times
introduced in (Chen et al., 2021) uses a combination of
improved variance schedule and an L1 loss to allow sam-
pling with fewer steps at the cost of a small reduction in
quality if such a trade-off is required. A recent paper (Song
et al., 2021) generalize the diffusion processes via a class
of non-Markovian processes which also allows for faster
sampling.
The use of normalizing ﬂows for discrete valued data dic-
tates that one dequantizes it (Theis et al., 2016), by adding
uniform noise to the data, before using the ﬂows to learn.
Dequantization is not needed in the EBM setting and future
work could explore methods of explicitly modeling discrete
distributions.
As noted in (Du & Mordatch, 2019) EBMs exhibit better
out-of-distribution (OOD) detection than other likelihood
models. Such a task requires models to have a high like-
lihood on the data manifold and low at all other locations.
Surprisingly (Nalisnick et al., 2019) showed that likelihood
models, including ﬂows, were assigning higher likelihoods
to OOD data whereas EBMs do not suffer from this issue
since they penalize high probability under the model but
low probability under the data distribution explicitly. Future
work could evaluate the usage of TimeGrad for anomaly
detection tasks.
For long time sequences, one could replace the RNN with
a Transformer architecture (Rasul et al., 2021) to provide
better conditioning for the EBM emission head. Concur-
rently, since EBMs are not constrained by the form of their
functional approximators, one natural way to improve the
model would be to incorporate architectural choices that
best encode the inductive bias of the problem being tackled,
for example with graph neural networks (Niu et al., 2020)
when the relationships between entities are known.
References
Benidis, K., Rangapuram, S. S., Flunkert, V., Wang,
B., Maddix, D., Turkmen, C., Gasthaus, J., Bohlke-
Schneider, M., Salinas, D., Stella, L., Callot, L., and
Januschowski, T. Neural forecasting: Introduction and
literature overview, 2020.
Charrington, S. TWiML & AI Podcast: Systems and Soft-
ware for Machine Learning at Scale with Jeff Dean, 2018.
URL https://bit.ly/2G0LmGg.
Chen, N., Zhang, Y., Zen, H., Weiss, R. J., Norouzi,
M., and Chan, W.
WaveGrad: Estimating gradients
for waveform generation. In International Conference
on Learning Representations 2021 (Conference Track),
2021. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
id=NsMLjcFaO8O.
Chung, J., Gulcehre, C., Cho, K., and Bengio, Y. Empirical
evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence
modeling. In NIPS 2014 Workshop on Deep Learning,
December 2014, 2014.
de B´ezenac, E., Rangapuram, S. S., Benidis, K., Bohlke-
Schneider, M., Kurle, R., Stella, L., Hasson, H., Gallinari,
P., and Januschowski, T. Normalizing Kalman Filters for
Multivariate Time series Analysis. In Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems, volume 33. Curran
Associates, Inc., 2020.
De Br´ebisson, A., Simon, E., Auvolat, A., Vincent, P.,
and Bengio, Y.
Artiﬁcial Neural Networks Applied
to Taxi Destination Prediction. In Proceedings of the
2015th International Conference on ECML PKDD Dis-
covery Challenge - Volume 1526, ECMLPKDDDC’15,
pp. 40–51, Aachen, Germany, Germany, 2015. CEUR-
WS.org.
URL http://dl.acm.org/citation.
cfm?id=3056172.3056178.
Dinh, L., Sohl-Dickstein, J., and Bengio, S. Density es-
timation using Real NVP. In 5th International Confer-
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
ence on Learning Representations, ICLR 2017, Toulon,
France, April 24-26, 2017, Conference Track Proceedings.
OpenReview.net, 2017. URL https://openreview.
net/forum?id=HkpbnH9lx.
Du, Y. and Mordatch, I. Implicit Generation and Modeling
with Energy Based Models. In Wallach, H., Larochelle,
H., Beygelzimer, A., d'Alch´e-Buc, F., Fox, E., and
Garnett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, volume 32, pp. 3608–3618. Curran As-
sociates, Inc., 2019. URL https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2019/file/
378a063b8fdb1db941e34f4bde584c7d-Paper.
pdf.
Fraccaro, M., Kamronn, S., Paquet, U., and Winther,
O.
A Disentangled Recognition and Nonlinear
Dynamics Model for Unsupervised Learning.
In
Guyon, I., Luxburg, U. V., Bengio, S., Wallach,
H., Fergus, R., Vishwanathan, S., and Garnett, R.
(eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, volume 30, pp. 3601–3610. Curran Asso-
ciates, Inc., 2017.
URL https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2017/file/
7b7a53e239400a13bd6be6c91c4f6c4e-Paper.
pdf.
Graves, A. Generating Sequences With Recurrent Neural
Networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1308.0850, 2013.
Hinton, G. E. Training Products of Experts by Minimiz-
ing Contrastive Divergence. Neural Computation, 14
(8):1771––1800, August 2002. ISSN 0899-7667. doi:
10.1162/089976602760128018. URL https://doi.
org/10.1162/089976602760128018.
Ho, J., Jain, A., and Abbeel, P. Denoising Diffusion Proba-
bilistic Models. In Wallach, H., Larochelle, H., Beygelz-
imer, A., d'Alch´e-Buc, F., Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.),
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 33. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL https:
//papers.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/
4c5bcfec8584af0d967f1ab10179ca4b-Paper.
pdf.
Hochreiter, S. and Schmidhuber, J. Long Short-Term Mem-
ory. Neural Computation, 9(8):1735–1780, November
1997. ISSN 0899-7667. doi: 10.1162/neco.1997.9.8.
1735.
Hyndman, R. and Athanasopoulos, G. Forecasting: Princi-
ples and practice. OTexts, 2018. ISBN 9780987507112.
Hyndman, R., Koehler, A., Ord, K., and Snyder, R. Fore-
casting with exponential smoothing. The state space ap-
proach, chapter 17, pp. 287–300. Springer-Verlag, 2008.
doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-71918-2.
Hyv¨arinen, A. Estimation of Non-Normalized Statistical
Models by Score Matching. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 6(24):695–709, 2005. URL http://jmlr.
org/papers/v6/hyvarinen05a.html.
Jordan, A., Kr¨uger, F., and Lerch, S.
Evaluating Prob-
abilistic Forecasts with scoringRules. Journal of Sta-
tistical Software, Articles, 90(12):1–37, 2019.
ISSN
1548-7660. doi: 10.18637/jss.v090.i12. URL https:
//www.jstatsoft.org/v090/i12.
Kingma, D. P. and Ba, J. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR), 2015.
Kingma, D. P. and Welling, M. An Introduction to Vari-
ational Autoencoders. Foundations and Trends in Ma-
chine Learning, 12(4):307–392, 2019. doi: 10.1561/
2200000056. URL https://doi.org/10.1561/
2200000056.
Kong, Z., Ping, W., Huang, J., Zhao, K., and Catanzaro, B.
DiffWave: A Versatile Diffusion Model for Audio Syn-
thesis. In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations 2021 (Conference Track), 2021. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=a-xFK8Ymz5J.
Lai, G., Chang, W.-C., Yang, Y., and Liu, H.
Model-
ing Long- and Short-Term Temporal Patterns with Deep
Neural Networks. In The 41st International ACM SI-
GIR Conference on Research & Development in Infor-
mation Retrieval, SIGIR ’18, pp. 95–104, New York,
NY, USA, 2018. ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-5657-2. doi:
10.1145/3209978.3210006. URL http://doi.acm.
org/10.1145/3209978.3210006.
LeCun, Y., Chopra, S., Hadsell, R., Ranzato, M., and Huang,
F. A Tutorial on Energy-Based Learning. In Bakir, G.,
Hofman, T., Sch¨olkopf, B., Smola, A., and Taskar, B.
(eds.), Predicting Structured Data. MIT Press, 2006.
Li, S., Jin, X., Xuan, Y., Zhou, X., Chen, W., Wang, Y.-X.,
and Yan, X. Enhancing the locality and breaking the
memory bottleneck of transformer on time series fore-
casting. In Wallach, H., Larochelle, H., Beygelzimer,
A., d’Alch´e Buc, F., Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.), Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32, pp.
5244–5254. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
L¨utkepohl, H. New Introduction to Multiple Time Series
Analysis.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2007.
ISBN
9783540262398.
URL https://books.google.
de/books?id=muorJ6FHIiEC.
Matheson, J. E. and Winkler, R. L. Scoring Rules for Con-
tinuous Probability Distributions. Management Science,
22(10):1087–1096, 1976.
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
Nalisnick, E., Matsukawa, A., Teh, Y. W., Gorur, D., and
Lakshminarayanan, B.
Do Deep Generative Models
Know What They Don’t Know? In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2019. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=H1xwNhCcYm.
Niu, C., Song, Y., Song, J., Zhao, S., Grover, A., and Ermon,
S. Permutation Invariant Graph Generation via Score-
Based Generative Modeling. In Chiappa, S. and Calandra,
R. (eds.), The 23rd International Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence and Statistics, AISTATS 2020, 26-28 August
2020, Online [Palermo, Sicily, Italy], volume 108 of
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 4474–
4484. PMLR, 2020.
Oreshkin, B. N., Carpov, D., Chapados, N., and Bengio,
Y. N-BEATS: Neural basis expansion analysis for inter-
pretable time series forecasting. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2020. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=r1ecqn4YwB.
Papamakarios, G., Pavlakou, T., and Murray, I. Masked
Autoregressive Flow for Density Estimation. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 30, 2017.
Papamakarios, G., Nalisnick, E., Rezende, D. J., Mohamed,
S., and Lakshminarayanan, B. Normalizing Flows for
Probabilistic Modeling and Inference, 2019.
Rasul, K., Sheikh, A.-S., Schuster, I., Bergmann, U.,
and Vollgraf, R.
Multivariate Probabilistic Time Se-
ries Forecasting via Conditioned Normalizing Flows.
In International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions 2021 (Conference Track), 2021.
URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=WiGQBFuVRv.
Salinas, D., Bohlke-Schneider, M., Callot, L., Medico, R.,
and Gasthaus, J. High-dimensional multivariate fore-
casting with low-rank Gaussian Copula Processes. In
Wallach, H., Larochelle, H., Beygelzimer, A., d’Alch´e
Buc, F., Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems 32, pp. 6824–6834.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2019a.
Salinas, D., Flunkert, V., Gasthaus, J., and Januschowski,
T.
DeepAR: Probabilistic forecasting with autore-
gressive recurrent networks.
International Journal
of Forecasting, 2019b.
ISSN 0169-2070.
URL
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0169207019301888.
Smyl, S.
A hybrid method of exponential smooth-
ing and recurrent neural networks for time series
forecasting.
International
Journal
of
Forecast-
ing, 36(1):75–85, 2020.
ISSN 0169-2070.
doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijforecast.2019.03.017.
URL
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0169207019301153.
M4
Competition.
Sohl-Dickstein, J., Weiss, E., Maheswaranathan, N., and
Ganguli, S. Deep Unsupervised Learning using Nonequi-
librium Thermodynamics. In Bach, F. and Blei, D. (eds.),
Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on
Machine Learning, volume 37 of Proceedings of Ma-
chine Learning Research, pp. 2256–2265, Lille, France,
2015. PMLR.
URL http://proceedings.mlr.
press/v37/sohl-dickstein15.html.
Song, J., Meng, C., and Ermon, S.
Denoising Diffu-
sion Implicit Models.
In International Conference
on Learning Representations 2021 (Conference Track),
2021.
URL https://openreview.net/pdf?
id=St1giarCHLP.
Song, Y. and Ermon, S.
Generative Modeling by
Estimating Gradients of the Data Distribution.
In
Wallach,
H.,
Larochelle,
H.,
Beygelzimer,
A.,
d'Alch´e-Buc, F., Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.),
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 32,
pp. 11918–11930. Curran Associates,
Inc.,
2019.
URL
https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2019/file/
3001ef257407d5a371a96dcd947c7d93-Paper.
pdf.
Song, Y. and Ermon, S. Improved Techniques for Training
Score-Based Generative Models.
In Wallach, H.,
Larochelle, H., Beygelzimer, A., d'Alch´e-Buc, F.,
Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 33. Curran As-
sociates, Inc., 2020. URL https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2020/file/
92c3b916311a5517d9290576e3ea37ad-Paper.
pdf.
Song, Y. and Kingma, D. P. How to Train Your Energy-
Based Models. 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2101.03288.
Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., and Le, Q. V. Sequence to Se-
quence Learning with Neural Networks. In Ghahramani,
Z., Welling, M., Cortes, C., Lawrence, N., and Wein-
berger, K. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems 27, pp. 3104–3112. Curran Associates,
Inc., 2014.
Theis, L., van den Oord, A., and Bethge, M. A note on the
evaluation of generative models. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2016. URL http://
arxiv.org/abs/1511.01844. arXiv:1511.01844.
Tsay, R. S. Multivariate Time Series Analysis: With R and
Financial Applications. Wiley Series in Probability and
Statistics. Wiley, 2014. ISBN 9781118617908.
Autoregressive Denoising Diffusion Models for Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
van den Oord, A., Dieleman, S., Zen, H., Simonyan, K.,
Vinyals, O., Graves, A., Kalchbrenner, N., Senior, A.,
and Kavukcuoglu, K. WaveNet: A Generative Model for
Raw Audio. In The 9th ISCA Speech Synthesis Workshop,
Sunnyvale, CA, USA, 13-15 September 2016, pp. 125.
ISCA, 2016a.
URL http://www.isca-speech.
org/archive/SSW_2016/abstracts/ssw9_
DS-4_van_den_Oord.html.
van den Oord, A., Kalchbrenner, N., Espeholt, L.,
kavukcuoglu, k., Vinyals, O., and Graves, A. Conditional
Image Generation with PixelCNN Decoders. In Lee,
D., Sugiyama, M., Luxburg, U., Guyon, I., and Garnett,
R. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, volume 29, pp. 4790–4798. Curran Associates,
Inc.,
2016b.
URL
https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2016/file/
b1301141feffabac455e1f90a7de2054-Paper.
pdf.
van den Oord, A., Kalchbrenner, N., and Kavukcuoglu,
K. Pixel Recurrent Neural Networks. In Balcan, M. F.
and Weinberger, K. Q. (eds.), Proceedings of The 33rd
International Conference on Machine Learning, vol-
ume 48 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
pp. 1747–1756, New York, New York, USA, 20–22 Jun
2016c. PMLR. URL http://proceedings.mlr.
press/v48/oord16.html.
van der Weide, R. GO-GARCH: a multivariate generalized
orthogonal GARCH model. Journal of Applied Econo-
metrics, 17(5):549–564, 2002. doi: 10.1002/jae.688.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, L. u., and Polosukhin, I. Atten-
tion is All you Need. In Guyon, I., Luxburg, U., Bengio,
S., Wallach, H., Fergus, R., Vishwanathan, S., and Gar-
nett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems 30, pp. 5998–6008. Curran Associates, Inc.,
2017.
URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/
7181-attention-is-all-you-need.pdf.
Vincent, P. A Connection Between Score Matching and De-
noising Autoencoders. Neural Computation, 23(7):1661–
1674, 2011.
URL https://doi.org/10.1162/
NECO_a_00142.
Wenzel, F., Roth, K., Veeling, B., Swiatkowski, J., Tran,
L., Mandt, S., Snoek, J., Salimans, T., Jenatton, R., and
Nowozin, S. How good is the Bayes posterior in deep
neural networks really?
In III, H. D. and Singh, A.
(eds.), Proceedings of the 37th International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 119 of Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pp. 10248–10259. PMLR,
13–18 Jul 2020. URL http://proceedings.mlr.
press/v119/wenzel20a.html.
Yoon, J., Jarrett, D., and van der Schaar, M.
Time-
series
Generative
Adversarial
Networks.
In
Wallach,
H.,
Larochelle,
H.,
Beygelzimer,
A.,
d'Alch´e-Buc, F., Fox, E., and Garnett, R. (eds.),
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume
32,
pp.
5508–5518.
Curran
Associates,
Inc.,
2019.
URL
https://proceedings.
neurips.cc/paper/2019/file/
c9efe5f26cd17ba6216bbe2a7d26d490-Paper.
pdf.
Zhu, L. and Laptev, N. Deep and Conﬁdent Prediction for
Time Series at Uber. In 2017 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Data Mining Workshops (ICDMW), volume 00,
pp. 103–110, November 2018. doi: 10.1109/ICDMW.
2017.19.
URL doi.ieeecomputersociety.
org/10.1109/ICDMW.2017.19.
