CSDI: Conditional Score-based Diffusion Models for
Probabilistic Time Series Imputation
Yusuke Tashiro123*, Jiaming Song1, Yang Song1, Stefano Ermon1
1Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA
2Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Investment Technology Institute, Tokyo, Japan
3Japan Digital Design, Tokyo, Japan
{ytashiro,tsong,songyang,ermon}@cs.stanford.edu
Abstract
The imputation of missing values in time series has many applications in healthcare
and ﬁnance. While autoregressive models are natural candidates for time series
imputation, score-based diffusion models have recently outperformed existing
counterparts including autoregressive models in many tasks such as image genera-
tion and audio synthesis, and would be promising for time series imputation. In
this paper, we propose Conditional Score-based Diffusion models for Imputation
(CSDI), a novel time series imputation method that utilizes score-based diffusion
models conditioned on observed data. Unlike existing score-based approaches,
the conditional diffusion model is explicitly trained for imputation and can exploit
correlations between observed values. On healthcare and environmental data, CSDI
improves by 40-65% over existing probabilistic imputation methods on popular
performance metrics. In addition, deterministic imputation by CSDI reduces the
error by 5-20% compared to the state-of-the-art deterministic imputation methods.
Furthermore, CSDI can also be applied to time series interpolation and probabilistic
forecasting, and is competitive with existing baselines. The code is available at
https://github.com/ermongroup/CSDI.
1
Introduction
Multivariate time series are abundant in real world applications such as ﬁnance, meteorology and
healthcare. These time series data often contain missing values due to various reasons, including
device failures and human errors [1–3]. Since missing values can hamper the interpretation of a time
series, many studies have addressed the task of imputing missing values using machine learning
techniques [4–6]. In the past few years, imputation methods based on deep neural networks have
shown great success for both deterministic imputation [7–9] and probabilistic imputation [10]. These
imputation methods typically utilize autoregressive models to deal with time series.
Score-based diffusion models – a class of deep generative models and generate samples by gradually
converting noise into a plausible data sample through denoising – have recently achieved state-of-
the-art sample quality in many tasks such as image generation [11, 12] and audio synthesis [13, 14],
outperforming counterparts including autoregressive models. Diffusion models can also be used to
impute missing values by approximating the scores of the posterior distribution obtained from the
prior by conditioning on the observed values [12, 15, 16]. While these approximations may work
well in practice, they do not correspond to the exact conditional distribution.
In this paper, we propose CSDI, a novel probabilistic imputation method that directly learns the
conditional distribution with conditional score-based diffusion models. Unlike existing score-based
approaches, the conditional diffusion model is designed for imputation and can exploit useful
information in observed values. We illustrate the procedure of time series imputation with CSDI in
35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021).
arXiv:2107.03502v2  [cs.LG]  27 Oct 2021
Figure 1: The procedure of time series imputation with CSDI. The reverse process pθ gradually
converts random noise into plausible time series, conditioned on observed values xco
0 . Dashed lines in
each box represent observed values, which are plotted in order to show the relationship with generated
imputation and not included in each xta
t .
Figure 1. We start imputation from random noise on the left of the ﬁgure and gradually convert the
noise into plausible time series through the reverse process pθ of the conditional diffusion model. At
each step t, the reverse process removes noise from the output of the previous step (t + 1). Unlike
existing score-based diffusion models, the reverse process can take observations (on the top left of
the ﬁgure) as a conditional input, allowing the model to exploit information in the observations for
denoising. We utilize an attention mechanism to capture the temporal and feature dependencies of
time series.
For training the conditional diffusion model, we need observed values (i.e., conditional information)
and ground-truth missing values (i.e., imputation targets). However, in practice we do not know the
ground-truth missing values, or training data may not contain missing values at all. Then, inspired by
masked language modeling, we develop a self-supervised training method that separates observed
values into conditional information and imputation targets. We note that CSDI is formulated for
general imputation tasks, and is not restricted to time series imputation.
Our main contributions are as follows:
• We propose conditional score-based diffusion models for probabilistic imputation (CSDI),
and implement CSDI for time series imputation. To train the conditional diffusion model,
we develop a self-supervised training method.
• We empirically show that CSDI improves the continuous ranked probability score (CRPS) by
40-65% over existing probabilistic methods on healthcare and environmental data. Moreover,
deterministic imputation with CSDI decreases the mean absolute error (MAE) by 5-20%
compared to the state-of-the-art methods developed for deterministic imputation.
• We demonstrate that CSDI can also be applied to time series interpolations and probabilistic
forecasting, and is competitive with existing baselines designed for these tasks.
2
Related works
Time series imputations with deep learning
Previous studies have shown deep learning models
can capture the temporal dependency of time series and give more accurate imputation than statistical
methods. A popular approach using deep learning is to use RNNs, including LSTMs and GRUs,
for sequence modeling [17, 8, 7]. Subsequent studies combined RNNs with other methods to
improve imputation performance, such as GANs [9, 18, 19] and self-training [20]. Among them,
the combination of RNNs with attention mechanisms is particularly successful for imputation and
interpolation of time series [21, 22]. While these methods focused on deterministic imputation,
GP-VAE [10] has been recently developed as a probabilistic imputation method.
Score-based generative models
Score-based generative models, including score matching with
Langevin dynamics [23] and denoising diffusion probabilistic models [11], have outperformed
existing methods with other deep generative models in many domains, such as images [23, 11],
2
audio [13, 14], and graphs [24]. Most recently, TimeGrad [25] utilized diffusion probabilistic models
for probabilistic time series forecasting. While the method has shown state-of-the-art performance, it
cannot be applied to time series imputation due to the use of RNNs to handle past time series.
3
Background
3.1
Multivariate time series imputation
We consider N multivariate time series with missing values. Let us denote the values of each time
series as X = {x1:K,1:L} ∈RK×L where K is the number of features and L is the length of time
series. While the length L can be different for each time series, we treat the length of all time
series as the same for simplicity, unless otherwise stated. We also denote an observation mask as
M = {m1:K,1:L} ∈{0, 1}K×L where mk,l = 0 if xk,l is missing, and mk,l = 1 if xk,l is observed.
We assume time intervals between two consecutive data entries can be different, and deﬁne the
timestamps of the time series as s = {s1:L} ∈RL. In summary, each time series is expressed as
{X, M, s}.
Probabilistic time series imputation is the task of estimating the distribution of the missing values of
X by exploiting the observed values of X. We note that this deﬁnition of imputation includes other
related tasks, such as interpolation, which imputes all features at target time points, and forecasting,
which imputes all features at future time points.
3.2
Denoising diffusion probabilistic models
Let us consider learning a model distribution pθ(x0) that approximates a data distribution q(x0).
Let xt for t = 1, . . . , T be a sequence of latent variables in the same sample space as x0, which is
denoted as X. Diffusion probabilistic models [26] are latent variable models that are composed of
two processes: the forward process and the reverse process. The forward process is deﬁned by the
following Markov chain:
q(x1:T | x0) :=
T
Y
t=1
q(xt | xt−1) where q(xt | xt−1) := N
p
1 −βtxt−1, βtI

(1)
and βt is a small positive constant that represents a noise level. Sampling of xt has the closed-form
written as q(xt | x0) = N(xt; √αtx0, (1 −αt)I) where ˆαt := 1 −βt and αt := Qt
i=1 ˆαi. Then,
xt can be expressed as xt = √αtx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ where ϵ ∼N(0, I). On the other hand, the reverse
process denoises xt to recover x0, and is deﬁned by the following Markov chain:
pθ(x0:T ) := p(xT )
T
Y
t=1
pθ(xt−1 | xt),
xT ∼N(0, I),
pθ(xt−1 | xt) := N(xt−1; µθ(xt, t), σθ(xt, t)I).
(2)
Ho et al. [11] has recently proposed denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), which
considers the following speciﬁc parameterization of pθ(xt−1 | xt):
µθ(xt, t) = 1
αt

xt −
βt
√1 −αt
ϵθ(xt, t)

, σθ(xt, t) = ˜β1/2
t
where ˜βt =
( 1−αt−1
1−αt βt
t > 1
β1
t = 1
(3)
where ϵθ is a trainable denoising function.
We denote µθ(xt, t) and σθ(xt, t) in Eq. (3) as
µDDPM(xt, t, ϵθ(xt, t)) and σDDPM(xt, t), respectively. The denoising function in Eq. (3) also corre-
sponds to a rescaled score model for score-based generative models [23]. Under this parameterization,
Ho et al. [11] have shown that the reverse process can be trained by solving the following optimization
problem:
min
θ
L(θ) := min
θ
Ex0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I),t||ϵ −ϵθ(xt, t)||2
2
where xt = √αtx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ.
(4)
The denoising function ϵθ estimates the noise vector ϵ that was added to its noisy input xt. This
training objective also be viewed as a weighted combination of denoising score matching used for
training score-based generative models [23, 27, 12]. Once trained, we can sample x0 from Eq. (2).
We provide the details of DDPM in Appendix A.
3
3.3
Imputation with diffusion models
Here, we focus on general imputation tasks that are not restricted to time series imputation. Let us
consider the following imputation problem: given a sample x0 which contains missing values, we
generate imputation targets xta
0 ∈X ta by exploiting conditional observations xco
0 ∈X co, where
X ta and X co are a part of the sample space X and vary per sample. Then, the goal of probabilistic
imputation is to estimate the true conditional data distribution q(xta
0 | xco
0 ) with a model distribution
pθ(xta
0 | xco
0 ). We typically impute all missing values using all observed values, and set all observed
values as xco
0 and all missing values as xta
0 , respectively. Note that time series imputation in Section 3.1
can be considered as a special case of this task.
Let us consider modeling pθ(xta
0 | xco
0 ) with a diffusion model. In the unconditional case, the reverse
process pθ(x0:T ) is used to deﬁne the ﬁnal data model pθ(x0). Then, a natural approach is to extend
the reverse process in Eq. (2) to a conditional one:
pθ(xta
0:T | xco
0 ) := p(xta
T )
T
Y
t=1
pθ(xta
t−1 | xta
t , xco
0 ),
xta
T ∼N(0, I),
pθ(xta
t−1 | xta
t , xco
0 ) := N(xta
t−1; µθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 ), σθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 )I).
(5)
However, existing diffusion models are generally designed for data generation and do not take
conditional observations xco
0 as inputs. To utilize diffusion models for imputation, previous stud-
ies [12, 15, 16] approximated the conditional reverse process pθ(xta
t−1 | xta
t , xco
0 ) with the reverse
process in Eq. (2). With this approximation, in the reverse process they add noise to both the target
and the conditional observations xco
0 . While this approach can impute missing values, the added noise
can harm useful information in the observations. This suggests that modeling pθ(xta
t−1 | xta
t , xco
0 )
without approximations can improve the imputation quality. Hereafter, we call the model deﬁned in
Section 3.2 as the unconditional diffusion model.
4
Conditional score-based diffusion model for imputation (CSDI)
In this section, we propose CSDI, a novel imputation method based on a conditional score-based
diffusion model. The conditional diffusion model allows us to exploit useful information in observed
values for accurate imputation. We provide the reverse process of the conditional diffusion model,
and then develop a self-supervised training method. We note that CSDI is not restricted to time series.
4.1
Imputation with CSDI
We focus on the conditional diffusion model with the reverse process in Eq. (5) and aim to model
the conditional distribution p(xta
t−1 | xta
t , xco
0 ) without approximations. Speciﬁcally, we extend the
parameterization of DDPM in Eq. (3) to the conditional case. We deﬁne a conditional denoising
function ϵθ : (X ta × R | X co) →X ta, which takes conditional observations xco
0 as inputs. Then, we
consider the following parameterization with ϵθ:
µθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 ) = µDDPM(xta
t , t, ϵθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 )),
σθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 ) = σDDPM(xta
t , t)
(6)
where µDDPM and σDDPM are the functions deﬁned in Section 3.2. Given the function ϵθ and data
x0, we can sample xta
0 using the reverse process in Eq. (5) and Eq. (6). For the sampling, we set all
observed values of x0 as conditional observations xco
0 and all missing values as imputation targets xta
0 .
Note that the conditional model is reduced to the unconditional one under no conditional observations
and can also be used for data generation.
4.2
Training of CSDI
Since Eq. (6) uses the same parameterization as Eq. (3) and the difference between Eq. (3) and
Eq. (6) is only the form of ϵθ, we can follow the training procedure for the unconditional model in
Section 3.2. Namely, given conditional observations xco
0 and imputation targets xta
0 , we sample noisy
targets xta
t = √αtxta
0 + (1 −αt)ϵ, and train ϵθ by minimizing the following loss function:
min
θ
L(θ) := min
θ
Ex0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I),t||(ϵ −ϵθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 ))||2
2
(7)
4
Figure 2: The self-supervised training procedure of CSDI. On the middle left rectangle, the green and
white areas represent observed and missing values, respectively. The observed values are separated
into red imputation targets xta
0 and blue conditional observations xco
0 , and used for training of ϵθ.
The colored areas in each rectangle mean the existence of values.
Table 1: Imputation targets xta
0 and conditional observations xco
0 for CSDI at training and sampling.
imputation targets xta
0
conditional observations xco
0
sampling (imputation)
all missing values
all observed values
training
a subset of the observed values
(sampled by a target choice strategy)
the remaining
observed values
where the dimension of ϵ corresponds to that of the imputation targets xta
0 .
However, this training procedure has an issue. Since we do not know the ground-truth missing values
in practice, it is not clear how to select xco
0 and xta
0 from a training sample x0. To address this
issue, we develop a self-supervised learning method inspired by masked language modeling [28]. We
illustrate the training procedure in Figure 2. Given a sample x0, we separate observed values of x0
into two parts, and set one of them as imputation targets xta
0 and the other as conditional observations
xco
0 . We choose the targets xta
0 through a target choice strategy, which is discussed in Section 4.3.
Then, we sample noisy targets xta
t and train ϵθ by solving Eq. (7). We summarize how we set xco
0
and xta
0 for training and sampling in Table 1. We also provide the algorithm of training and sampling
in Appendix B.1.
4.3
Choice of imputation targets in self-supervised learning
In the proposed self-supervised learning, the choice of imputation targets is important. We provide
four target choice strategies depending on what is known about the missing patterns in the test dataset.
We describe the algorithm for these strategies in Appendix B.2.
(1) Random strategy : this strategy is used when we do not know about missing patterns, and randomly
chooses a certain percentage of observed values as imputation targets. The percentage is sampled
from [0%, 100%] to adapt to various missing ratios in the test dataset.
(2) Historical strategy: this strategy exploits missing patterns in the training dataset. Given a
training sample x0, we randomly draw another sample ˜x0 from the training dataset. Then, we set
the intersection of the observed indices of x0 and the missing indices of ˜x0 as imputation targets.
The motivation of this strategy comes from structured missing patterns in the real world. For
example, missing values often appear consecutively in time series data. When missing patterns in the
training and test dataset are highly correlated, this strategy helps the model learn a good conditional
distribution.
5
(3) Mix strategy: this strategy is the mix of the above two strategies. The historical strategy may
lead to overﬁtting to missing patterns in the training dataset. The Mix strategy can beneﬁt from
generalization by the random strategy and structured missing patterns by the historical strategy.
(4) Test pattern strategy: when we know the missing patterns in the test dataset, we just set the patterns
as imputation targets. For example, this strategy is used for time series forecasting, since the missing
patterns in the test dataset are ﬁxed to given future time points.
5
Implementation of CSDI for time series imputation
Figure 3: The architecture of 2D attention. Given a tensor with K features, L length, and C channels,
the temporal Transformer layer takes tensors with (1, L, C) shape as inputs and learns temporal
dependency. The feature Transformer layer takes tensors with (K, 1, C) shape as inputs and learns
feature dependency. The output shape of each layer is the same as the input shape.
In this section, we implement CSDI for time series imputation. For the implementation, we need the
inputs and the architecture of ϵθ.
First, we describe how we process time series data as inputs for CSDI. As deﬁned in Section 3.1, a
time series is denoted as {X, M, s}, and the sample space X of X is RK×L. We want to handle X
in the sample space RK×L for learning dependencies in a time series using a neural network, but
the conditional denoising function ϵθ takes inputs xta
t and xco
0 in varying sample spaces that are a
part of X as shown in white areas of xta
t and xco
0 in Figure 2. To address this issue, we adjust the
conditional denoising function ϵθ to inputs in the ﬁxed sample space RK×L. Concretely, we ﬁx the
shape of the inputs xta
t and xco
0 to (K × L) by applying zero padding to xta
t and xco
0 . In other words,
we set zero values to white areas for xta
t and xco
0 in Figure 2. To indicate which indices are padded,
we introduce the conditional mask mco ∈{0, 1}K×L as an additional input to ϵθ, which corresponds
to xco
0 and takes value 1 for indices of conditional observations. For ease of handling, we also ﬁx the
output shape in the sample space RK×L by applying zero padding. Then, the conditional denoising
function ϵθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 , mco) can be written as ϵθ : (RK×L × R | RK×L × {0, 1}K×L) →RK×L.
We discuss the effect of this adjustment on training and sampling in Appendix D.
Under the adjustment, we set conditional observations xco
0 and imputation targets xta
0 for time series
imputation by following Table 1. At sampling time, since conditional observations xco
0 are all
observed values, we set mco = M and xco
0 = mco ⊙X where ⊙represents element-wise products.
For training, we sample xta
0 and xco
0 through a target choice strategy, and set the indices of xco
0 as
mco. Then, xco
0 is written as xco
0 = mco ⊙X and xta
0 is obtained as xta
0 = (M −mco) ⊙X.
Next, we describe the architecture of ϵθ. We adopt the architecture in DiffWave [13] as the base,
which is composed of multiple residual layers with residual channel C. We reﬁne this architecture
for time series imputation. We set the diffusion step T = 50. We discuss the main differences from
DiffWave (see Appendix E.1 for the whole architecture and details).
Attention mechanism
To capture temporal and feature dependencies of multivariate time series,
we utilize a two dimensional attention mechanism in each residual layer instead of a convolution
architecture. As shown in Figure 3, we introduce temporal Transformer layer and a feature Trans-
former layer, which are 1-layer Transformer encoders. The temporal Transformer layer takes tensors
for each feature as inputs to learn temporal dependency, whereas the feature Transformer layer takes
tensors for each time point as inputs to learn temporal dependency.
Note that while the length L can be different for each time series as mentioned in Section 3.1, the
attention mechanism allows the model to handle various lengths. For batch training, we apply zero
padding to each sequence so that the lengths of the sequences are the same.
6
Side information
In addition to the arguments of ϵθ, we provide some side information as ad-
ditional inputs to the model. First, we use time embedding of s = {s1:L} to learn the temporal
dependency. Following previous studies [29, 30], we use 128-dimensions temporal embedding.
Second, we exploit categorical feature embedding for K features, where the dimension is 16.
6
Experimental results
In this section, we demonstrate the effectiveness of CSDI for time series imputation. Since CSDI
can be applied to other related tasks such as interpolation and forecasting, we also evaluate CSDI for
these tasks to show the ﬂexibility of CSDI. Due to the page limitation, we provide the detailed setup
for experiments including train/validation/test splits and hyperparameters in Appendix E.2.
6.1
Time series imputation
Dataset and experiment settings
We run experiments for two datasets. The ﬁrst one is the
healthcare dataset in PhysioNet Challenge 2012 [1], which consists of 4000 clinical time series with
35 variables for 48 hours from intensive care unit (ICU). Following previous studies [7, 8], we process
the dataset to hourly time series with 48 time steps. The processed dataset contains around 80%
missing values. Since the dataset has no ground-truth, we randomly choose 10/50/90% of observed
values as ground-truth on the test data.
The second one is the air quality dataset [2]. Following previous studies [7, 21], we use hourly
sampled PM2.5 measurements from 36 stations in Beijing for 12 months and set 36 consecutive
time steps as one time series. There are around 13% missing values and the missing patterns are not
random. The dataset contains artiﬁcial ground-truth, whose missing patterns are also structured.
For both dataset, we run each experiment ﬁve times. As the target choice strategy for training, we
adopt the random strategy for the healthcare dataset and the mix of the random and historical strategy
for the air quality dataset, based on the missing patterns of each dataset.
Results of probabilistic imputation
CSDI is compared with three baselines. 1) Multitask GP [31]:
the method learns the covariance between timepoints and features simultaneously. 2) GP-VAE [10]:
the method showed the state-of-the-art results for probabilistic imputation. 3) V-RIN [32]: a deter-
ministic imputation method that uses the uncertainty quantiﬁed by VAE to improve imputation. For
V-RIN, we regard the quantiﬁed uncertainty as probabilistic imputation. In addition, we compare
CSDI with imputation using the unconditional diffusion model in order to show the effectiveness of
the conditional one (see Appendix C for training and imputation with the unconditional diffusion
model).
We ﬁrst show quantitative results. We adopt the continuous ranked probability score (CRPS) [33] as
the metric, which is freuquently used for evaluating probabilistic time series forecasting and measures
the compatibility of an estimated probability distribution with an observation. We generate 100
samples to approximate the probability distribution over missing values and report the normalized
average of CRPS for all missing values following previous studies [34] (see Appendix E.3 for details
of the computation).
Table 2: Comparing CRPS for probabilistic imputation baselines and CSDI (lower is better). We
report the mean and the standard error of CRPS for ﬁve trials.
healthcare
air quality
10% missing
50% missing
90% missing
Multitask GP [31]
0.489(0.005)
0.581(0.003)
0.942(0.010)
0.301(0.003)
GP-VAE [10]
0.574(0.003)
0.774(0.004)
0.998(0.001)
0.397(0.009)
V-RIN [32]
0.808(0.008)
0.831(0.005)
0.922(0.003)
0.526(0.025)
unconditional
0.360(0.007)
0.458(0.008)
0.671(0.007)
0.135(0.001)
CSDI (proposed)
0.238(0.001)
0.330(0.002)
0.522(0.002)
0.108(0.001)
7
Figure 4: Examples of probabilistic time series imputation for the healthcare dataset with 50%
missing (left) and the air quality dataset (right). The red crosses show the observed values and the
blue circles show the ground-truth imputation targets. For each method, median values of imputations
are shown as the line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
Table 2 represents CRPS for each method. CSDI reduces CRPS by 40-65% compared to the existing
baselines for both datasets. This indicates that CSDI generates more realistic distributions than other
methods. We also observe that the imputation with CSDI outperforms that with the unconditional
model. This suggests CSDI beneﬁts from explicitly modeling the conditional distribution.
We provide imputation examples in Figure 4. For the air quality dataset, CSDI (green solid line)
provides accurate imputations with high conﬁdence, while those by GP-VAE (gray dashed line) are
far from ground-truth. CSDI also gives reasonable imputations for the healthcare dataset. These
results indicate that CSDI exploits temporal and feature dependencies to provide accurate imputations.
We give more examples in Appendix G.
Table 3: Comparing MAE for deterministic imputation methods and CSDI. We report the mean and
the standard error for ﬁve trials. The asterisks mean the results of the method are cited from the
original paper.
healthcare
air quality
10% missing
50% missing
90% missing
V-RIN [32]
0.271(0.001)
0.365(0.002)
0.606(0.006)
25.4(0.62)
BRITS [7]
0.284(0.001)
0.368(0.002)
0.517(0.002)
14.11(0.26)
BRITS [7] (*)
0.278
−
−
11.56
GLIMA [21] (*)
0.265
−
−
10.54
RDIS [20]
0.319(0.002)
0.419(0.002)
0.631(0.002)
22.11(0.35)
unconditional
0.326(0.008)
0.417(0.010)
0.625(0.010)
12.13(0.07)
CSDI (proposed)
0.217(0.001)
0.301(0.002)
0.481(0.003)
9.60(0.04)
Results of deterministic imputation
We demonstrate that CSDI also provides accurate determin-
istic imputations, which are obtained as the median of 100 generated samples. We compare CSDI
with four baselines developed for deterministic imputation including GLIMA [21], which combined
recurrent imputations with an attention mechanism to capture temporal and feature dependencies and
showed the state-of-the-art performance. These methods are based on autoregressive models. We use
the original implementations except RDIS.
We evaluate each method by the mean absolute error (MAE). In Table 3, CSDI improves MAE by
5-20% compared to the baselines. This suggests that the conditional diffusion model is effective to
learn temporal and feature dependencies for imputation. For the healthcare dataset, the gap between
the baselines and CSDI is particularly signiﬁcant when the missing ratio is small, because more
observed values help CSDI capture dependencies.
8
Table 4: Comparing the state-of-the-art interpolation methods with CSDI for the healthcare dataset.
We report the mean and the standard error of CRPS for ﬁve trials.
10% missing
50% missing
90% missing
Latent ODE [35]
0.700(0.002)
0.676(0.003)
0.761(0.010)
mTANs [22]
0.526(0.004)
0.567(0.003)
0.689(0.015)
CSDI (proposed)
0.380(0.002)
0.418(0.001)
0.556(0.003)
6.2
Interpolation of irregularly sampled time series
Dataset and experiment settings
We use the same healthcare dataset as the previous section, but
process the dataset as irregularly sampled time series, following previous studies [22, 35]. Since the
dataset has no ground-truth, we randomly choose 10/50/90% of time points and use observed values
at these time points as ground-truth on the test data. As the target choice strategy for training, we
adopt the random strategy, which is adjusted for interpolation so that some time points are sampled.
Results
We compare CSDI with two baselines including mTANs [22], which utilized an attention
mechanism and showed state-of-the-art results for the interpolation of irregularly sampled time series.
We generate 100 samples to approximate the probability distribution as with the previous section.
The result is shown in Table 4. CSDI outperforms the baselines for all cases.
Table 5: Comparing probabilistic forecasting methods with CSDI. We report the mean and the
standard error of CRPS-sum for three trials. The baseline results are cited from the original paper.
’TransMAF’ is the abbreviation for ’Transformer MAF’.
solar
electricity
trafﬁc
taxi
wiki
GP-copula [34]
0.337(0.024)
0.024(0.002)
0.078(0.002)
0.208(0.183)
0.086(0.004)
TransMAF [36]
0.301(0.014)
0.021(0.000)
0.056(0.001)
0.179(0.002)
0.063(0.003)
TLAE [37]
0.124(0.033) 0.040(0.002)
0.069(0.001)
0.130(0.006)
0.241(0.001)
TimeGrad [25]
0.287(0.020)
0.021(0.001)
0.044(0.006) 0.114(0.020)
0.049(0.002)
CSDI (proposed) 0.298(0.004) 0.017(0.000) 0.020(0.001)
0.123(0.003) 0.047(0.003)
6.3
Time series Forecasting
Dataset and Experiment settings
We use ﬁve datasets that are commonly used for evaluating
probabilistic time series forecasting. Each dataset is composed of around 100 to 2000 features. We
predict all features at future time steps using past time series. We use the same prediction steps as
previous studies [34, 37]. For the target choice strategy, we adopt the Test pattern strategy.
Results
We compare CSDI with four baselines. Speciﬁcally, TimeGrad [25] combined the diffusion
model with a RNN-based encoder. We evaluate each method for CRPS-sum, which is CRPS for
the distribution of the sum of all time series across K features and accounts for joint effect (see
Appendix E.3 for details).
In Table 5, CSDI outperforms the baselines for electricity and trafﬁc datasets, and is competitive
with the baselines as a whole. The advantage of CSDI over baselines for forecasting is smaller than
that for imputation in Section 6.1. We hypothesize it is because the datasets for forecasting seldom
contains missing values and are suitable for existing encoders including RNNs. For imputation, it is
relatively difﬁcult for RNNs to handle time series due to missing values.
7
Conclusion
In this paper, we have proposed CSDI, a novel approach to impute multivariate time series with
conditional diffusion models. We have shown that CSDI outperforms the existing probabilistic and
deterministic imputation methods.
9
There are some interesting directions for future work. One direction is to improve the computation
efﬁciency. While diffusion models generate plausible samples, sampling is generally slower than
other generative models. To mitigate the issue, several recent studies leverage an ODE solver to
accelerate the sampling procedure [12, 38, 13]. Combining our method with these approaches would
likely improve the sampling efﬁciency.
Another direction is to extend CSDI to downstream tasks such as classiﬁcations. Many previous
studies have shown that accurate imputation improves the performance on downstream tasks [7, 18,
22]. Since conditional diffusion models can learn temporal and feature dependencies with uncertainty,
joint training of imputations and downstream tasks using conditional diffusion models would be
helpful to improve the performance of the downstream tasks.
Finally, although our focus was on time series, it would be interesting to explore CSDI as imputation
technique on other modalities.
Acknowledgements and Disclosure of Funding
This research was supported by NSF(#1651565, #1522054, #1733686), ONR (N000141912145),
AFOSR (FA95501910024), ARO (W911NF-21-1-0125) and Sloan Fellowship.
References
[1] Ikaro Silva, George Moody, Daniel J Scott, Leo A Celi, and Roger G Mark. Predicting in-
hospital mortality of icu patients: The physionet/computing in cardiology challenge 2012. In
Computing in Cardiology, pages 245–248. IEEE, 2012.
[2] Xiuwen Yi, Yu Zheng, Junbo Zhang, and Tianrui Li. ST-MVL: ﬁlling missing values in
geo-sensory time series data. In Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, pages 2704–2710, 2016.
[3] Huachun Tan, Guangdong Feng, Jianshuai Feng, Wuhong Wang, Yu-Jin Zhang, and Feng Li.
A tensor-based method for missing trafﬁc data completion. Transportation Research Part C:
Emerging Technologies, 28:15–27, 2013.
[4] Fulufhelo V Nelwamondo, Shakir Mohamed, and Tshilidzi Marwala. Missing data: A com-
parison of neural network and expectation maximization techniques. Current Science, pages
1514–1521, 2007.
[5] Andrew T Hudak, Nicholas L Crookston, Jeffrey S Evans, David E Hall, and Michael J
Falkowski. Nearest neighbor imputation of species-level, plot-scale forest structure attributes
from lidar data. Remote Sensing of Environment, 112(5):2232–2245, 2008.
[6] S van Buuren and Karin Groothuis-Oudshoorn. MICE: Multivariate imputation by chained
equations in r. Journal of statistical software, pages 1–68, 2010.
[7] Wei Cao, Dong Wang, Jian Li, Hao Zhou, Lei Li, and Yitan Li. BRITS: Bidirectional recurrent
imputation for time series. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018.
[8] Zhengping Che, Sanjay Purushotham, Kyunghyun Cho, David Sontag, and Yan Liu. Recurrent
neural networks for multivariate time series with missing values. Scientiﬁc reports, 8(1):1–12,
2018.
[9] Yonghong Luo, Xiangrui Cai, Ying Zhang, Jun Xu, and Xiaojie Yuan. Multivariate time series
imputation with generative adversarial networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, pages 1603–1614, 2018.
[10] Vincent Fortuin, Dmitry Baranchuk, Gunnar Rätsch, and Stephan Mandt. GP-VAE: Deep
probabilistic time series imputation. In International Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and
Statistics, 2020.
[11] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020.
10
[12] Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and
Ben Poole. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. In
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
[13] Zhifeng Kong, Wei Ping, Jiaji Huang, Kexin Zhao, and Bryan Catanzaro. DiffWave: A versatile
diffusion model for audio synthesis. In International Conference on Learning Representations,
2021.
[14] Nanxin Chen, Yu Zhang, Heiga Zen, Ron J Weiss, Mohammad Norouzi, and William Chan.
WaveGrad: Estimating gradients for waveform generation. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2021.
[15] Zahra Kadkhodaie and Eero P Simoncelli. Solving linear inverse problems using the prior
implicit in a denoiser. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.13640, 2020.
[16] Gautam Mittal, Jesse Engel, Hawthorne Curtis, and Ian Simon. Symbolic music generation
with diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.16091, 2021.
[17] Jinsung Yoon, William R Zame, and Mihaela van der Schaar. Estimating missing data in
temporal data streams using multi-directional recurrent neural networks. IEEE Transactions on
Biomedical Engineering, 66(5):1477–1490, 2018.
[18] Yonghong Luo, Ying Zhang, Xiangrui Cai, and Xiaojie Yuan. E2GAN: End-to-end generative
adversarial network for multivariate time series imputation. In Proceedings of International
Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 3094–3100, 2019.
[19] Xiaoye Miao, Yangyang Wu, Jun Wang, Yunjun Gao, Xudong Mao, and Jianwei Yin. Generative
semi-supervised learning for multivariate time series imputation. In The Thirty-Fifth AAAI
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 2021.
[20] Tae-Min Choi, Ji-Su Kang, and Jong-Hwan Kim. RDIS: Random drop imputation with self-
training for incomplete time series data. In The Thirty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, 2021.
[21] Qiuling Suo, Weida Zhong, Guangxu Xun, Jianhui Sun, Changyou Chen, and Aidong Zhang.
GLIMA: Global and local time series imputation with multi-directional attention learning. In
2020 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data), pages 798–807. IEEE, 2020.
[22] Satya Narayan Shukla and Benjamin M Marlin. Multi-time attention networks for irregularly
sampled time series. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
[23] Yang Song and Stefano Ermon. Generative modeling by estimating gradients of the data
distribution. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.
[24] Chenhao Niu, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Shengjia Zhao, Aditya Grover, and Stefano Ermon.
Permutation invariant graph generation via score-based generative modeling. In International
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 4474–4484. PMLR, 2020.
[25] Kashif Rasul, Calvin Seward, Ingmar Schuster, and Roland Vollgraf. Autoregressive denois-
ing diffusion models for multivariate probabilistic time series forecasting. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2101.12072, 2021.
[26] Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Eric Weiss, Niru Maheswaranathan, and Surya Ganguli. Deep unsuper-
vised learning using nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2015.
[27] Yang Song and Stefano Ermon. Improved techniques for training score-based generative models.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020.
[28] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training
of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019
Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, 2019.
11
[29] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, 2017.
[30] Simiao Zuo, Haoming Jiang, Zichong Li, Tuo Zhao, and Hongyuan Zha. Transformer hawkes
process. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2020.
[31] Edwin V Bonilla, Kian Ming A Chai, and Christopher KI Williams. Multi-task gaussian process
prediction. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2008.
[32] Ahmad Wisnu Mulyadi, Eunji Jun, and Heung-Il Suk. Uncertainty-aware variational-recurrent
imputation network for clinical time series. IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, 2021. to appear.
[33] James E Matheson and Robert L Winkler. Scoring rules for continuous probability distributions.
Management science, 22(10):1087–1096, 1976.
[34] David Salinas, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Laurent Callot, Roberto Medico, and Jan Gasthaus.
High-dimensional multivariate forecasting with low-rank gaussian copula processes. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.
[35] Yulia Rubanova, Ricky TQ Chen, and David Duvenaud. Latent ordinary differential equations
for irregularly-sampled time series. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2019.
[36] Kashif Rasul, Abdul-Saboor Sheikh, Ingmar Schuster, Urs Bergmann, and Roland Vollgraf.
Multi-variate probabilistic time series forecasting via conditioned normalizing ﬂows. In Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
[37] Nam Nguyen and Brian Quanz. Temporal latent auto-encoder: A method for probabilistic mul-
tivariate time series forecasting. In The Thirty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
2021.
[38] Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising diffusion implicit models. In
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
[39] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan,
Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. Pytorch: An imperative
style, high-performance deep learning library. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2019.
[40] Phil Wang.
Linear attention transformer.
https://github.com/lucidrains/
linear-attention-transformer, 2020.
[41] Zhuoran Shen, Mingyuan Zhang, Haiyu Zhao, Shuai Yi, and Hongsheng Li. Efﬁcient attention:
Attention with linear complexities. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on
Applications of Computer Vision, pages 3531–3539, 2021.
[42] Alex Nichol and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved denoising diffusion probabilistic models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2102.09672, 2021.
[43] Jacob R Gardner, Geoff Pleiss, David Bindel, Kilian Q Weinberger, and Andrew Gordon
Wilson. Gpytorch: Blackbox matrix-matrix gaussian process inference with gpu acceleration.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018.
[44] Alexander Alexandrov, Konstantinos Benidis, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Valentin Flunkert, Jan
Gasthaus, Tim Januschowski, Danielle C. Maddix, Syama Rangapuram, David Salinas, Jasper
Schulz, Lorenzo Stella, Ali Caner Türkmen, and Yuyang Wang. GluonTS: Probabilistic and
Neural Time Series Modeling in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 21(116):1–6,
2020.
[45] Guokun Lai, Wei-Cheng Chang, Yiming Yang, and Hanxiao Liu. Modeling long-and short-term
temporal patterns with deep neural networks. In The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference
on Research & Development in Information Retrieval, pages 95–104, 2018.
12
A
Details of denoising diffusion probabilistic models
In this section, we describe the details of denoising diffusion probabilistic models in Section 3.2.
Diffusion probabilistic models [26] are latent variable models that are composed of two processes:
the forward process and the reverse process. The forward process and the reverse process are deﬁned
by Eq. (1) and 2, respectively. Then, the parameters θ are learned by maximizing variational lower
bound (ELBO) of likelihood pθ(x0:T ):
Eq(x0)[log pθ(x0)] ≥Eq(x0,x1,...,xT )[log pθ(x0:T ) −log q(x1:T | x0)] := ELBO.
(8)
To analyse this ELBO, Ho et al. [11] proposed denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM),
which considered the parameterization given by Eq. (3). Under the parameterization, Ho et al. [11]
showed ELBO satisﬁes the following equation:
−ELBO = c +
T
X
t=1
κtEx0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I)||ϵ −ϵθ(√αtx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ, t)||2
2
(9)
where c is a constant and {κ1:T } are positive coefﬁcients depending on α1:T and β1:T . The diffusion
process can be trained by minimizing Eq. (9). In addition, Ho et al. [11] found that minimizing the
following unweighted version of ELBO leads to good sample quality:
min
θ
L(θ) := min
θ
Ex0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I),t||ϵ −ϵθ(√αtx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ, t)||2
2.
(10)
The function ϵθ estimates noise ϵ in the noisy input. Once trained, we can sample x0 from Eq. (2).
B
Algorithms
B.1
Algorithm for training and sampling of CSDI
We provide the training procedure of CSDI in Algorithm 1 and the imputation (sampling) procedure
with CSDI in Algorithm 2, which are described in Section 4.
Algorithm 1 Training of CSDI
1: Input: distribution of training data q(x0), a target choice strategy T , the number of iteration
Niter, the sequence of noise levels {αt}
2: Output: Trained denoising function ϵθ
3: for i = 1 to Niter do
4:
t ∼Uniform({1, . . . , T}), x0 ∼q(x0)
5:
Separate observed values of x0 into conditional information xco
0 and imputation targets xta
0 by
the target choice strategy T
6:
ϵ ∼N(0, I) where the dimension of ϵ corresponds to xta
0
7:
Calculate noisy targets xta
t = √αtxta
0 + (1 −αt)ϵ
8:
Take gradient step on ∇θ||(ϵ −ϵθ(xta
t , t | xco
0 ))||2
2 according to Eq. (7)
Algorithm 2 Imputation (Sampling) with CSDI
1: Input: a data sample x0, trained denoising function ϵθ
2: Output: Imputed missing values xta
0
3: Denote observed values of x0 as xco
0
4: xta
T ∼N(0, I) where the dimension of xta
T corresponds to the missing indices of x0
5: for t = T to 1 do
6:
Sample xta
t−1 using Eq. (5) and Eq. (6)
B.2
Target choice strategies for self-supervised training
We describe the target choice strategies for self-supervised training of CSDI, which is discussed in
Section 4.3. We give the algorithm of the random strategy in Algorithm 3 and that of the historical
13
Algorithm 3 Target choice with the random strategy
1: Input: a training sample x0
2: Output: conditional information xco
0 , imputation targets xta
0
3: Draw target ratio r ∼Uniform(0, 100)
4: Randomly choose r% of the observed values of x0 and denote the chosen observations as xta
0 ,
and denote the remaining observations as xco
0
Algorithm 4 Target choice with the historical strategy
1: Input: a training sample x0, missing pattern dataset Dmiss
2: Output: conditional information xco
0 , imputation targets xta
0
3: Draw a data sample ˜x0 from Dmiss
4: Denote the indices of observed values of x0 as J
5: Denote the indices of missing values of ˜x0 as ˜J
6: Take the intersection of J and ˜J, and denote values of x0 for the intersection as xta
0
7: Set the remaining observations of x0 as xco
0
strategy in Algorithm 4. On the historical strategy, we use the training dataset as missing pattern
dataset Dmiss, unless otherwise stated. The mix strategy draws one of the two strategies with a ratio
of 1:1 for each training sample. The test pattern strategy just uses the ﬁxed missing pattern in the test
dataset to choose imputation targets.
C
Training and imputation for unconditional diffusion model
C.1
Imputation with unconditional diffusion model
We describe the imputation method with the unconditional diffusion model used for the experiments
in Section 6.1. We followed the method described in previous studies [12]. To utilize unconditional
diffusion models for imputation, they approximated the conditional reverse process pθ(xta
t−1 |
xta
t , xco
0 ) in Eq. (5) with the unconditional reverse process in Eq. (2). Given a test sample x0, they
set all observed values as conditional observations xco
0 and all missing values as imputation targets
xta
0 . Then, instead of conditional observations xco
0 , they considered noisy conditional observations
xco
t
:= √αtxco
0 + (1 −αt)ϵ and exploited xt = [xco
t ; xta
t ] ∈X for the input to the distribution
pθ(xt−1 | xt) in Eq. (2), where [xco
t ; xta
t ] combines xco
t and xta
t to create a sample in X. Using this
approximation, we can sample xt−1 from pθ(xt−1 | xt = [xco
t ; xta
t ]) and obtain xta
t−1 by extracting
target indices from xt−1. By repeating the sampling procedure from t = T to t = 1, we can generate
imputation targets xta
0 .
C.2
Training procedure of unconditional diffusion models for time series imputation
In Section 3.2, we described the training procedure of the unconditional diffusion model, which
expects the training dataset does not contain missing values. However, the training dataset that we
use for time series imputation contains missing values. To handle missing values, we slightly modify
the training procedure. Given a training sample x0 with missing values, we treat the missing values
like observed values by ﬁlling dummy values to the missing indices of x0. We adopt zeros for the
dummy values and denote the training sample after ﬁlling zeros as bx0. Since all indices of bx0 contain
values, we can sample noisy targets √αtbx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ as with the training procedure in Section 3.2.
We consider denoising the noisy target for training, but we are only interested in estimating the
noises added to the observed indices since the dummy values contain no information about the data
distribution. To exclude the missing indices, we introduce an observation mask m ∈{0, 1}K×L,
which takes value 1 for observed indices. Then, instead of Eq. (4), we use the following loss function
for training under the existence of missing values:
min
θ
L(θ) := min
θ
Ex0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I),t||(ϵ −ϵθ(√αtbx0 + (1 −αt)ϵ, t)) ⊙m||2
2.
(11)
14
Figure 5: The self-supervised training procedure of CSDI for implementation of time series imputa-
tion. The colored areas in each rectangle represent the existence of values. The green and white areas
represent observed and missing values, respectively, and white areas are padded with zeros to ﬁx the
shape of the inputs. Zero padding is also applied to all white areas. As with Figure 2, the observed
values are separated into red imputation targets xta
0 and blue conditional observations xco
0 . For the
extended targets x b
ta
0 , the area of value 0 shows dummy values.
D
CSDI for implementation of time series imputation
In this section, we discuss the effect of adjusting the function ϵθ, described in Section 5. First, let
us consider the effect of the adjustment on sampling. The adjustment does not essentially affect the
model at sampling time, because all values of data are either conditional observations or imputation
targets as shown in Table 1 and the model can distinguish the type of each value through the mask
mco. Since the output shape is adjusted, we need to recover the shape by extracting the indices of the
imputation targets from the output, so that we substitute the outputs into Eq. (6).
Next, we focus on the effect of the adjustment on training. Unlike sampling, the model at training
time cannot distinguish imputation targets and missing values since we ignore missing values during
training as shown in Table 1. In order to handle the missing values, we need to modify the inputs to ϵθ.
Here, we use a similar approach to the training procedure with the unconditional model in Section C.2.
Namely, we treat the missing indices like a part of imputation targets. We illustrate the extended
training procedure in Figure 5. First, we set zeros to the missing indices as dummy values. We denote
the extended imputation targets as x b
ta
0 . Then, we sample noisy targets x b
ta
t = √αtx b
ta
0 + (1 −αt)ϵ b
ta,
where ϵ b
ta is masked noise and is given by ϵ b
ta := (1 −mco) ⊙ϵ, as shown in Figure 5. We denoise
the noisy targets for training. We only estimate the noise for the original imputation targets, since
the dummy values contain no information about the data distribution. In other words, we train ϵθ by
solving the following optimization problem:
min
θ
L(θ) := min
θ
Ex0∼q(x0),ϵ∼N(0,I),t||(ϵ −ϵθ(x b
ta
t , t | xco
0 , mco)) ⊙mta||2
2
(12)
where mta is a mask which corresponds to xta
0 and takes value 1 for the original imputation targets.
E
Details of architectures and experiment settings
E.1
Details of implementation of CSDI
We describe the details of architectures and hyperparameters for the conditional diffusion model
described in Section 5. First, we provide the whole architecture of CSDI in Figure 6. Since the
architecture in Figure 6 is based on DiffWave [13], we mainly explain the difference from DiffWave.
On the top of the ﬁgure, the models take xco
0 and xta
t as inputs since ϵθ is the conditional denoising
function. For the diffusion step t, we use the following 128-dimensions embedding following previous
works [29, 13]:
tembedding(t) =

sin(100·4/63t), . . . , sin(1063·4/63t), cos(100·4/63t), . . . , cos(1063·4/63t)

. (13)
15
Figure 6: Architecture of ϵθ in CSDI for multivariate time series imputation.
Similarly, we utilize time embedding of s = {s1:L} as a side information. We use 128-dimensions
temporal embedding following previous studies [29, 30]:
sembedding(sl) =

sin(sl/τ 0/64), . . . , sin(sl/τ 63/64), cos(sl/τ 0/64), . . . , cos(sl/τ 63/64)

(14)
where τ = 10000. On the top right of the ﬁgure, we expand each side information and concatenate all
the side information. On the bottom right of the ﬁgure, we multiply the output by a mask (1 −mco)
in order to mask the indices of the conditional observations of the output.
As for Transformer layers, we used 1-layer TransformerEncoder implemented in PyTorch [39],
which is composed of a multi-head attention layer, fully-connected layers and layer normalization.
Only for forecasting tasks, we adopted the "linear attention transformer" package [40] to improve
computational efﬁciency, since the forecasting datasets we used contained many features and long
sequences. The package implements an efﬁcient attention mechanism [41], and we only used global
attention in the package.
E.2
Details of experiment settings in Section 6
In this section, we provide the details of the experiment settings in Section 6. When we evaluated
baseline methods with the original implementation in each section, we used their original hyperpa-
rameters and model size. Although we also ran experiments under the same model size as our model,
the performance did not improve in more than half of the cases and did not outperform our model in
all cases.
E.2.1
Experiment settings for imputation in Section 6.1
First, we explain additional information for the air quality dataset. The dataset is composed of air
quality data in Beijing from 2014/05/01 to 2015/04/30. The dataset contains artiﬁcial ground-truth,
whose missing patterns are created based on those in the next month.
Next, we describe data splits. For the healthcare dataset, we randomly divided the dataset into ﬁve
parts and used one of them as test data for each run. We also randomly split the remaining data into
train and validation data with a ratio of 7:1. For the air quality dataset, following [2], we used the
3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th months as test data. To avoid evaluating imputation for each missing value
multiple times, we separated the test data of each month every 36 consecutive time steps without
overlap. When the length of a monthly data was not divisible by 36, we allowed the last sequence to
overlap with the previous one and did not aggregate the result for the overlapping parts. For each run,
we selected a month as validation data and used the rest as training data. We note that we excluded
the 4th, 7th, 10th, and 1st months from missing pattern dataset for the historical strategy, because
these months were used for creating missing patterns of the artiﬁcial ground-truth.
16
On the healthcare dataset, due to the different scales of features, we evaluate the performance on
normalized data following previous studies [7]. For training of all tasks, we normalize each feature to
have zero mean and unit variance.
As for hyperparameters, we set the batch size as 16 and the number of epochs as 200. We used Adam
optimizer with learning rate 0.001 that is decayed to 0.0001 and 0.00001 at 75% and 90% of the total
epochs, respectively. As for the model, we set the number of residual layers as 4, residual channels as
64, and attention heads as 8. We followed DiffWave[13] for the number of channels and decided the
number of layers based on the validation loss and the parameter size. The number of the parameter in
the model is about 415,000.
We also provide hyperparameters for the diffusion model as follows. We set the number of the
diffusion step T = 50, the minimum noise level β1 = 0.0001, and the maximum noise level
βT = 0.5. Since recent studies[38, 42] reported that gentle decay of αt could improve the sample
quality, we adopted the following quadratic schedule for other noise levels:
βt =
 T −t
T −1
p
β1 + t −1
T −1
p
βT
2
.
(15)
With regard to the baselines for probabilistic imputation, we used their original implementations for
GP-VAE and V-RIN. For Multitask GP, we utilized GPyTorch [43] for the implementation. We used
RBF kernel for the covariance between timepoints and low-rank IndexKernel with rank = 10 for
that between features.
Finally, we describe the baselines for deterministic imputation, which were used for comparison. 1)
BRITS [7]: the method utilizes a bi-directional recurrent neural network to handle multiple correlated
missing values. 2) V-RIN [32]: the method utilizes the uncertainty learned with VAE to improve
recurrent imputation. 3) GLIMA [21]: the method combines recurrent imputations with an attention
mechanism to capture cross-time and cross-feature dependencies and shows the state-of-the-art
performance. 4) RDIS [20]: the method applies random drops to given training data for self-training.
We used the original implementation for BRITS and V-RIN. For RDIS, we set the number of models
as 8, hidden units as 108, drop rate as 30%, threshold as 0.1, update epoch as 200, and total epochs as
1000.
E.2.2
Experiment settings for interpolation in Section 6.2
First, we explain how we process the dataset. We processed the healthcare dataset as irregularly
sampled time series. Following previous studies [22, 35], we rounded observation times to the nearest
minute. Then, there are 48 × 60 possible measurement times per time series, and the lengths of time
series samples can be different each other.
We used almost the same experiment settings as those for imputation in Section E.2.1. Since the
length of each irregularly sampled time series is different, we applied zero padding to each time series
in order to ﬁx the length for each batch. The padding does not affect the result since the attention
mechanisms in the implementation of CSDI can deal with the padding by using padding masks.
We describe the baselines which were used for comparison. We used the original implementation.
1) Latent ODE [35]: the method consists of an ODE-RNN model as the encoder and a neural ODE
model as the decoder. 2) mTANs [22]: the method utilized an attention mechanism and showed
state-of-the-art results for the interpolation of irregularly sampled time series.
Table 6: Description of datasets for time series forecasting.
feature K
total
time step
history
steps L1
prediction
steps L2
test
sample
epochs
solar
137
10392
168
24
7
50
electricity
370
5833
168
24
7
100
trafﬁc
963
7009
168
24
7
200
taxi
1214
1488
48
24
56
300
wiki
2000
792
90
30
5
300
17
E.2.3
Datasets and Experiment settings for forecasting in Section 6.3
First we describe the datasets we used. We used ﬁve open datasets that are commonly used for
evaluating probabilistic time series forecasting. The datasets were preprocessed in Salinas et al. [34]
and provided in GluonTS1[44]:
• solar [45]: hourly solar power production records of 137 stations in Alabama State.
• electricity2: hourly electricity consumption of 370 customers.
• trafﬁc3: hourly occupancy rate of 963 San Fancisco freeway car lanes.
• taxi4: half hourly trafﬁc time series of New York taxi rides taken at 1214 locations in the
months of January 2015 for training and January 2016 for test.
• wiki: daily page views of 2000 Wikipedia pages.
We summarize the characteristics of each dataset in Table 6. The task for these datasets is to predict
the future L2 steps by exploiting the latest L1 steps where L1 and L2 depend on datasets as shown
in Table 6. We set L1 and L2 referring to previous studies [37]. For training, we randomly selected
L1 + L2 consecutive time steps as one time series and set the last L2 steps as imputation targets.
We followed the train/test split in previous studies. We used the last ﬁve samples of training data as
validation data.
As for experiment settings, since we basically followed the setting for time series imputation in
Section E.2.1, we only describe the difference from it. We ran each experiment three times with
different random seeds. We set batch size as 8 because of longer sequence length, and utilized an
efﬁcient Transformer as mentioned in Section E.1.
Since the number of features K is large, we adopted subset sampling of features for training. For
each time series in a training batch, we randomly chose a subset of features and only used the subset
for the batch. The attention mechanism allows the model to take varying length inputs. We set the
subset size as 64. Due to the subset sampling, we need large epochs when the number of features K
is large. Therefore, we set training epochs based on the number of features and the validation loss.
We provide the epochs in Table 6.
Finally, we describe the baselines which were used for comparison. 1) GP-copula [34]: the method
combines a RNN-based model with a Gaussian copula process to model time-varying correlations. 2)
Transformer MAF [36]: the method uses Transformer to learn temporal dynamics and a conditioned
normalizing ﬂow to capture feature dependencies. 3) TLAE [37]: the method combines a RNN-based
model with autoencoders to learn latent temporal patterns. 4) TimeGrad [25]: the method has shown
the state-of-the-art results for probabilistic forecasting by combining a RNN-based model with
diffusion models.
E.3
Computations of CRPS
We describe the deﬁnition and computation of the CRPS metric.
The continuous ranked probability score (CRPS) [33] measures the compatibility of an estimated
probability distribution F with an observation x, and can be deﬁned as the integral of the quantile
loss Λα(q, z) := (α −1lz<q)(z −q) for all quantile levels α ∈[0, 1]:
CRPS(F −1, x) =
Z 1
0
2Λα(F −1(α), x)dα
(16)
where 1l is the indicator function. We generated 100 samples to approximate the distribution F over
each missing value. We computed quantile losses for discretized quantile levels with 0.05 ticks.
Namely, we approximated CRPS with
CRPS(F −1, x) ≃
19
X
i=1
2Λi∗0.05(F −1(i ∗0.05), x)/19.
(17)
1https://github.com/awslabs/gluon-ts
2https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014
3https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/PEMS-SF
4https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/tlc-trip-record-data
18
Then, we evaluated the following normalized average of CRPS for all features and time steps:
P
k,l CRPS(F −1
k,l , xk,l)
P
k,l |xk,l|
(18)
where k and l indicates features and time steps of imputation targets, respectively.
For probabilistic forecasting, we evaluated CRPS-sum. CRPS-sum is CRPS for the distribution F of
the sum of all K features and is computed by the following equation:
P
l CRPS(F −1, P
k xk,l)
P
k,l |xk,l|
(19)
where P
k xk,l is the sum of forecasting targets for all features at time point l.
F
Additional results and experiments
Table 7: Comparing the two dimension attention mechanism of various architectures. For ablations,
we report the mean and the standard error for three trials.
healthcare (10% missing)
air quality
MAE
CRPS
MAE
CRPS
no-temporal
0.439(0.004)
0.475(0.001)
26.63(0.23)
0.292(0.002)
no-feature
0.352(0.001)
0.386(0.002)
14.44(0.11)
0.162(0.001)
ﬂatten
0.383(0.002)
0.418(0.002)
12.26(0.09)
0.139(0.001)
Bi-RNN
0.272(0.001)
0.301(0.001)
12.56(0.26)
0.142(0.003)
dilated conv
0.279(0.002)
0.305(0.002)
11.67(0.11)
0.130(0.001)
2D attention (proposed)
0.217(0.001)
0.238(0.001)
9.60(0.04)
0.108(0.001)
F.1
Effectiveness of two dimensional attention mechanism
In this paper, we utilized a two dimensional attention mechanism to learn temporal and feature
dependencies. To show the effectiveness of the attention mechanism, we demonstrate an ablation
study. We replace the attention mechanism with the following architecture baselines and compare the
performance:
• no temporal: remove temporal attention layers
• no feature: remove feature attention layers
• ﬂatten: ﬂatten 2D tensor (K features x L length) to 1D, and input the 1D vector to trans-
former layers
• Bi-RNN: replace the attention mechanism with Bi-directional RNN which is a popular
architecture for multivariate time series imputation
• dilated conv: replace temporal and feature attention layers with 1D dilated convolution
layers, respectively. The dilated convolution was used in previous studies for diffusion
models[13, 25]
We set hyperparameters of each architecture so that the number of parameters is almost the same
as our attention mechanism. We show the result in Table 7. Our attention mechanism outperforms
all of the other architectures. The comparison with “no temporal” and “no feature” shows that
both temporal and feature correlations are important for accurate imputation. The comparison with
“ﬂatten”, “Bi-RNN”, and “dilated conv” shows that our attention mechanism is effective to learn
temporal and feature dependency compared with existing methods. In summary, the result of the
ablation indicates the proposed attention mechanism plays a key role in improving the imputation
performance by a large margin.
19
Table 8: Comparison of the negative log likelihood (NLL) and CRPS for various schedules. We
report the mean for three trials.
healthcare (10% missing)
air quality
method
schedule
NLL
CRPS
NLL
CRPS
GP-VAE
−
< 1.22
0.574
< 1.09
0.397
proposed
quad. (in paper)
< 1.63
0.238
< 0.97
0.108
proposed
linear
< 29.70
0.240
< 18.55
0.110
proposed
quad. (large min. noise)
< 0.07
0.239
< −0.70
0.109
F.2
Comparison of negative log likelihood for probabilistic imputation
The negative log likelihood (NLL) is a popular metric for evaluating probabilistic methods and ELBO
is often utilized to estimate NLL. A reason why we mainly focused on other metrics is that ELBO is
sometimes far from NLL and uncorrelated with the quality of generated samples. Speciﬁcally, in the
proposed method, the choice of the noise schedule highly affects the ELBO while it has little effect
on the sample quality.
To demonstrate this, we performed an experiment. We chose the following three noise schedules for
CSDI and calculated NLL and CRPS for each schedule.
• quadratic (used in the paper): quadratic spaced schedule between βmin = 0.0001 and
βmax = 0.5
• linear: linear spaced schedule with the same βmin and βmax as those in the paper
• quadratic (large minimum noise): quadratic schedule with large minimum noise level
βmin = 0.001, which makes the model ignore small noise
We also calculated the metrics for GP-VAE. The result is shown in Table 8. While CRPS by the
proposed method is almost independent from the choice of schedules, NLL signiﬁcantly depends on
the schedule. This phenomenon happens because time series data is generally noisy and it is difﬁcult
to denoise small noise during imputation. Estimated scores by the model could be inaccurate when
inputs to the model (i.e. imputation targets) only contain small noise. These inaccurate scores could
make the estimated ELBO loose, whereas small noise does not affect the sample quality. When the
minimum noise level βmin is large, since the model does not denoise small noise in sampling steps,
ELBO by the proposed method is tightly estimated and smaller than that by GP-VAE. Therefore,
ELBO is not suitable for evaluating the sample quality and we adopted other metrics such as CRPS
and MAE.
F.3
Experimental results for other metrics in Section 6
We show the experimental results in Section 6 for different metrics in Table 9 to 12. Table 9 evaluates
RMSE for deterministic imputation methods. We added SSGAN [19] as an additional baseline, which
has shown the state-of-the-art performance for RMSE in the healthcare dataset. We can conﬁrm that
CSDI outperforms all baselines for RMSE. The advantage of CSDI is particularly large when the
missing ratio is low. This result is consistent with that in Section 6.1.
Table 10 evaluates MAE and RMSE for interpolation methods. The result is consistent with Table 4.
Table 11 and 12 report CRPS and MSE for probabilistic forecasting methods, respectively. We
exclude TimeGrad [25] from the baselines, as they did not report these metrics. We can see that CSDI
is competitive with baselines for these metrics as with CRPS-sum.
F.4
Effect of the number of generated samples
For the experiments in Section 6, we generated 100 samples to estimate the distribution of imputation.
We demonstrate the relationship between the number of samples and the performance in Figure 7.
We can see that ﬁve or ten samples are enough to estimate good distributions and outperform the
baselines. Increasing the number of samples further improves the performance, and the improvement
becomes marginal over 50 samples.
20
Table 9: Comparing deterministic imputation methods with CSDI for RMSE. The results correspond
to Table 3. We report the mean and the standard error for ﬁve trials. The asterisk means the values
are cited from the original paper.
healthcare
air quality
10% missing
50% missing
90% missing
V-RIN [32]
0.628(0.025)
0.693(0.022)
0.928(0.013)
40.11(1.14)
BRITS [7]
0.619(0.022)
0.693(0.023)
0.836(0.015)
24.47(0.73)
RDIS [20]
0.633(0.021)
0.741(0.018)
0.934(0.013)
37.49(0.28)
SSGAN [19] (*)
0.598
0.762
0.818
−
unconditional
0.621(0.020)
0.734(0.024)
0.940(0.018)
22.58(0.23)
CSDI (proposed)
0.498(0.020)
0.614(0.017)
0.803(0.012)
19.30(0.13)
Table 10: Comparing the state-of-the-art interpolation method with CSDI for MAE and RMSE. The
results correspond to Table 4. We report the mean and the standard error for ﬁve trials.
10% missing
50% missing
90% missing
MAE
Latent ODE [35]
0.522(0.002)
0.506(0.003)
0.578(0.009)
mTANs [22]
0.389(0.003)
0.422(0.003)
0.533(0.005)
CSDI (proposed)
0.362(0.001)
0.394(0.002)
0.518(0.003)
RMSE
Latent ODE [35]
0.799(0.012)
0.783(0.012)
0.865(0.017)
mTANs [22]
0.749(0.037)
0.721(0.014)
0.836(0.018)
CSDI (proposed)
0.722(0.043)
0.700(0.013)
0.839(0.009)
Table 11: Comparing probabilistic forecasting methods with CSDI for CRPS. The results correspond
to Table 5. We report the mean and the standard error for three trials. The results for baseline methods
are cited from their paper. ’TransMAF’ is the abbreviation for ’Transformer MAF’.
solar
electricity
trafﬁc
taxi
wiki
GP-copula [34]
0.371(0.022)
0.056(0.002)
0.133(0.001)
0.360(0.201)
0.236(0.000)
TransMAF [36]
0.368(0.001)
0.052(0.000)
0.134(0.001)
0.377(0.002)
0.274(0.007)
TLAE [37]
0.335(0.025) 0.058(0.002)
0.097(0.001)
0.369(0.006)
0.298(0.001)
CSDI (proposed) 0.338(0.012) 0.041(0.000) 0.073(0.000) 0.271(0.001) 0.207(0.002)
Table 12: Comparing probabilistic forecasting methods with CSDI for MSE. The results correspond
to Table 5. We report the mean and the standard error for three trials. The results for baseline methods
are cited from their paper. ’TransMAF’ is the abbreviation for ’Transformer MAF’. ’TransMAF’ did
not report the standard error.
solar
electricity
trafﬁc
taxi
wiki
GP-copula [34]
9.8e2(5.2e1) 2.4e5(5.5e4) 6.9e-4(2.2e-5) 3.1e1(1.4e0) 4.0e7(1.6e9)
TransMAF [36]
9.3e2
2.0e5
5.0e-4
4.5e1
3.1e7
TLAE [37]
6.8e2(7.5e1) 2.0e5(9.2e4) 4.0e-4(2.9e-6) 2.6e1(8.1e-1) 3.8e7(4.2e4)
CSDI (proposed) 9.0e2(6.1e1) 1.1e5(2.8e3) 3.5e-4(7.0e-7) 1.7e1(6.8e-2) 3.5e7(4.4e4)
Table 13: The effect of the target choice strategy for the air quality dataset. We report the mean and
the standard error for ﬁve trials.
CRPS
MAE
random
0.108(0.001)
9.58(0.08)
historical
0.113(0.001)
10.12(0.05)
mix
0.108(0.001)
9.60(0.04)
21
Figure 7: The effect of the number of generated samples. The ﬁrst row shows the effect on proba-
bilistic imputation in Table 2 and the second row shows the effect on deterministic imputation in
Table 3.
F.5
Effect of target choice strategy
In the experiment for the air quality dataset in Section 6.1, we adopted the mix strategy for the target
choice. Here, we provide the result for other strategies and show the effect of the target choice
strategy on imputation quality. In Table 13, the performances of the mix strategy and the random
strategy are almost the same, and the performance of the historical strategy is slightly worse than
that of the other strategies. This means that the historical strategy is not effective for the air quality
dataset even though the dataset contains structured missing patterns. This is due to the difference
of missing patterns between training dataset and test dataset. Note that all strategies outperform the
baselines in Table 2 and Table 3.
G
Additional examples of probabilistic imputation
In this section, we illustrate various imputation examples to show the characteristic of imputed
samples. We pick a multivariate time series from the results of each experiment in Section 6.1 and
show imputation results for all features of each time series in Figure 8 to 11. We compare CSDI with
GP-VAE in Figure 8 to 11. Note that the scales of the y axis depend on the features. For the healthcare
dataset with 90% missing ratio in Figure 10, while GP-VAE fails to learn the distribution, CSDI gives
reasonable probabilistic imputation for most of the features. For the air quality dataset in Figure 11,
CSDI learns the dependency between features and provides more accurate imputation than GP-VAE.
In Figure 12 to 15, we compare CSDI with the unconditional diffusion model. In all ﬁgures, CSDI
tends to provide tighter uncertainty than the unconditional diffusion model. We hypothesize that it
is due to the approximation discussed in Section 3.3. Since the unconditional model approximates
the conditional distribution by using noisy observed values, the estimated imputation become less
conﬁdent than that with the conditional model.
H
Potential negative societal impacts
Since score-based diffusion models are generative models, our proposed model has negative impacts
as well as other generative models. For example, the model can potentially memorize private
information and be used to generate fake data.
22
Figure 8: Comparison of imputation between GP-VAE and CSDI for the healthcare dataset (10%
missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red crosses show observed
values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and gray colors correspond
to CSDI and GP-VAE, respectively. For each method, median values of imputations are shown as the
line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
23
Figure 9: Comparison of imputation between GP-VAE and CSDI for the healthcare dataset (50%
missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red crosses show observed
values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and gray colors correspond
to CSDIand GP-VAE, respectively. For each method, median values of imputations are shown as the
line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
24
Figure 10: Comparison of imputation between GP-VAE and CSDI for the healthcare dataset (90%
missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red crosses show observed
values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and gray colors correspond
to CSDI and GP-VAE, respectively. For each method, median values of imputations are shown as the
line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
25
Figure 11: Comparison of imputation between GP-VAE and CSDI for the air quality dataset. The
result is for a time series sample with all 36 features. The red crosses show observed values and the
blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and gray colors correspond to CSDI and
GP-VAE, respectively. For each method, median values of imputations are shown as the line and 5%
and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
26
Figure 12: Comparison of imputation between the unconditional diffusion model and CSDI for the
healthcare dataset (10% missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red
crosses show observed values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and
gray colors correspond to CSDI and the unconditional model, respectively. For each method, median
values of imputations are shown as the line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
27
Figure 13: Comparison of imputation between the unconditional diffusion model and CSDI for the
healthcare dataset (50% missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red
crosses show observed values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and
gray colors correspond to CSDIand the unconditional model, respectively. For each method, median
values of imputations are shown as the line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
28
Figure 14: Comparison of imputation between the unconditional diffusion model and CSDI for the
healthcare dataset (90% missing). The result is for a time series sample with all 35 features. The red
crosses show observed values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and
gray colors correspond to CSDI and the unconditional model, respectively. For each method, median
values of imputations are shown as the line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
29
Figure 15: Comparison of imputation between the unconditional diffusion model and CSDI for the
air quality dataset. The result is for a time series sample with all 36 features. The red crosses show
observed values and the blue circles show ground-truth imputation targets. Green and gray colors
correspond to CSDI and the unconditional model, respectively. For each method, median values of
imputations are shown as the line and 5% and 95% quantiles are shown as the shade.
30
