Resynthesis-based Attacks Against Logic Locking
Felipe Almeida†, Levent Aksoy†, Quang-Linh Nguyen‡, Sophie Dupuis‡, Marie-Lise Flottes‡ and Samuel Pagliarini†
†Department of Computer Systems, Tallinn University of Technology, Tallinn, Estonia
Email: {felipe.almeida, levent.aksoy, samuel.pagliarini}@taltech.ee
‡LIRMM, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France
Email: {quang-linh.nguyen, sophie.dupuis, marie-lise.ﬂottes}@lirmm.fr
Abstract—Logic locking has been a promising solution to many
hardware security threats, such as intellectual property infringe-
ment and overproduction. Due to the increased attention that
threats have received, many efﬁcient specialized attacks against
logic locking have been introduced over the years. However, the
ability of an adversary to manipulate a locked netlist prior to
mounting an attack has not been investigated thoroughly. This
paper introduces a resynthesis-based strategy that utilizes the
strength of a commercial electronic design automation (EDA)
tool to reveal the vulnerabilities of a locked circuit. To do
so, in a pre-attack step, a locked netlist is resynthesized using
different synthesis parameters in a systematic way, leading to a
large number of functionally equivalent but structurally different
locked circuits. Then, under the oracle-less threat model, where
it is assumed that the adversary only possesses the locked circuit,
not the original circuit to query, a prominent attack is applied to
these generated netlists collectively, from which a large number
of key bits are deciphered. Nevertheless, this paper also describes
how the proposed oracle-less attack can be integrated with an
oracle-guided attack. The feasibility of the proposed approach
is demonstrated for several benchmarks, including remarkable
results for breaking a recently proposed provably secure logic
locking method and deciphering values of a large number of key
bits of the CSAW’19 circuits with very high accuracy.
Index Terms—Logic locking, resynthesis, EDA tools, oracle-less
and oracle-guided attacks.
I. INTRODUCTION
Due to the globalized integrated circuit (IC) supply chain,
serious security threats, such as hardware Trojans, piracy,
overbuilding, reverse engineering, and counterfeiting, have
emerged [1]. Many defense techniques, such as watermark-
ing [2], digital rights management [3], metering [4], and logic
locking [5], have been introduced over the years to deal
with these threats. Among those, logic locking stands out by
being a well-established technique and by offering protection
against a diverse array of adversaries [6]. Logic locking inserts
additional logic driven by key bits so that the circuit behaves
as expected only when the secret key is applied.
On the other hand, many efﬁcient attacks have been in-
troduced to overcome the defenses built by logic locking [7].
However, the impact of an electronic design automation (EDA)
tool on the manipulation of the locked netlist before per-
forming an attack has not been investigated thoroughly. In
This work has been partially conducted in the project “ICT programme”
which was supported by the European Union through the European Social
Fund. It was also partially supported by European Union’s Horizon 2020
research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 952252
(SAFEST).
this work, we explore if EDA tools can be used to make
a locked circuit vulnerable to existing logic locking attacks.
Thus, the main contributions of this work are three-fold:
(i) we introduce a resynthesis procedure that is a pre-attack
step, where functionally equivalent but structurally different
locked circuits are generated by resynthesizing the original
locked circuit using different optimization parameters and
delay constraints in order to create structural vulnerabilities
that can be exploited by existing attacks; (ii) we present an
oracle-less (OL) resynthesis-based attack, which applies the
prominent SCOPE attack [8] to these resynthesized circuits
and gathers all its solutions to discover the secret key; (iii) we
show that our OL attack can be combined with a traditional
oracle-guided (OG) attack for further improving the number of
correctly deciphered key bits. The last contribution is essential,
since we consider circuits from the CSAW’19 contest – these
circuits compound the use of two logic locking techniques at
the same time.
The main ﬁnding of this work is that the use of many
resynthesized locked circuits enables us to discover values of
more key bits, and even the whole key, when compared to a
single attack mounted on the original locked netlist.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Sec-
tion II presents the background concepts and related work.
The resynthesis process and the proposed attacks are described
in Section III. Experimental results are given in Section IV.
Finally, Section V concludes the paper.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Logic Locking and Threat Models
The procedure of logic locking is applied at the gate level
in the IC design ﬂow, as shown in Fig. 1. Note that the layout
of the locked circuit is sent to the foundry without revealing
the secret key. After the locked IC is produced and delivered
to the design house, the values of the secret key are stored in
a tamper-proof memory, before the functional IC is sent to the
market.
It is assumed that the gate-level netlist of the locked
circuit can be obtained directly by an untrusted foundry or
by reverse-engineering a functional IC obtained from the
open market. An adversary can also use the functional IC
programmed with the secret key as an oracle to apply inputs
and observe outputs. Thus, in logic locking, there are generally
two threat models: OL and OG. In the OL threat model, only
the gate-level netlist of the locked circuit is available to the
arXiv:2301.04400v1  [cs.CR]  11 Jan 2023
Logic
Synthesis
Logic
Locking
Locked
Netlist
Physical
Synthesis
Layout
Fabrication
Test &
Packaging
Locked
IC
Key
Activation
FunctionaI
IC
Trusted Entity
Untrusted Entity
Untrusted Entity
Trusted Entity
Behavioral
Design
Specification
Fig. 1. Conventional logic locking in the IC design ﬂow (adapted from [6]).
Original Circuit
Locking Unit
inputs
key bits
output
Original Circuit
Restore Unit
inputs
key bits
output
Pertub Unit
Stripped Circuit
X
X
X
X  Critical Point
(a)
(b)
Fig. 2. SAT-resilient logic locking methods: (a) SFLT; (b) DFLT.
adversary. The adversary has both the netlist of the locked
circuit and the functional IC in the OG threat model.
B. Related Work
After the introduction of random logic locking (RLL) using
XOR/XNOR gates in [9], earlier work focused on different
types of key gates, such as AND/OR, multiplexors, and look-up
tables, taking into account the hardware complexity of the
locked circuit [5]. However, the OG satisﬁability (SAT)-based
attack [10] overcame all the defenses existing at that time.
Note that the SAT-based attack iteratively ﬁnds differentiating
input patterns (DIPs) that rule out wrong keys. To thwart the
SAT-based attack and its variants, circuits are locked using a
point function that sets a limit on the number of wrong keys
which a DIP can eliminate, forcing these attacks to explore an
exponential number of queries [6], [11]–[14].
The SAT-resilient methods can be categorized into two
groups: single-ﬂip locking technique (SFLT) and double-ﬂip
locking technique (DFLT), as shown in Fig. 2. An SFLT
has only one critical point, which is responsible to corrupt
a protected output under a speciﬁc input pattern. In this
category, SARLock [15] adds a comparator and a masking
circuit connected with the original netlist in a way that it
generates a corruption on one input pattern. Anti-SAT [11]
utilizes two complementary AND gate trees, whose output is
merged with the original circuit. CASLock [12] is based on
the same concept of Anti-SAT, however it uses both AND and
OR gates. SKG-Lock [14] uses decoy key bits and provides
a tunable output corruption. Note that SFLTs are susceptible
to removal attacks [16]–[18]. If an attacker can identify this
single critical point, he/she can split the design into a recovered
netlist (original) and the locking unit.
A DFLT has two critical points, one that connects the
original netlist with a perturbation unit and another one that
connects the output of the stripped circuit with the restore
unit. Under this category, stripped functionality logic locking
(SFLL) [6], [13] initially corrupts an output based on an input
combination in the perturbation unit and then, corrects this
output only when the secret key is applied in the restore
unit. Note that a removal attack becomes inefﬁcient for a
DFLT, since the original circuit is mixed with the perturbation
unit, even though it can easily identify the restore unit.
However, there exist efﬁcient structural attacks developed for
DFLTs [19]–[22].
Alternative locking techniques have also been introduced.
In [23], a technique, which has more than two critical points,
called the multi-ﬂip locking technique (MFLT), was proposed.
However, it leads to a signiﬁcant increase in area, power
dissipation, and delay when compared to other techniques.
Compound logic locking techniques were proposed to over-
come the main drawback of a SAT-resilient technique, i.e.,
its low output corruptibility as can be observed in Fig. 2,
by locking a design using both low and high output corrupt-
ibility techniques, such as SFLL and RLL, respectively [24].
Recently, efﬁcient attacks have also been introduced against
compound logic locking [25], [26].
Moreover, the OL attacks explore patterns in the structure
of a locked netlist using statistical analysis [8], [27], [28]. For
example, the SCOPE attack [8] is an unsupervised constant
propagation technique, which analyzes each key bit of the
locked design for critical features that can reveal its correct
value after it is assigned to logic 0 and 1 value. These critical
features include area, power dissipation, delay, and many
other circuit characteristics obtained by a synthesis tool. These
features are analyzed using linear regression and machine
learning based clustering.
III. PROPOSED RESYNTHESIS-BASED ATTACK
This section describes our resynthesis-based attack in detail.
We initially introduced the pre-attack stage, where the locked
circuit is resynthesized using different synthesis parameters,
leading to a large number of structurally different netlists with
the same functionality [29]. Then, we present the OL attack
that utilizes these resynthesized netlists in order to ﬁnd the
secret key. Finally, in order to handle the compound logic
locking efﬁciently, we present its modiﬁed version, where our
proposed OL attack cooperates with an OG attack.
A. The Pre-attack Step: Resynthesis of the Locked Netlist
The locked circuit is synthesized multiple times using a
different script each time, where the synthesis parameters are
explored in a systematic way. We use the following parameters
to increase the number of resynthesized locked circuits:
Synthesis Effort: In a synthesis tool, logic optimizations can
be applied with different efforts at different synthesis stages.
This ﬂexibility enables a designer to explore the trade-off
between the quality of results and run time. The following ef-
forts are considered at the given synthesis stage: low, medium,
and high at generic transformations (syn_gen); low, medium,
and high at mapping (syn_map); and low, medium, high, and
extreme at optimization (syn_opt).
Delay Constraint: To meet performance targets, delay con-
straints are used to guide the synthesis tool. We initially
resynthesize the locked circuit without a delay constraint and
ﬁnd the delay of its critical path, i.e., dcp. Then, in an interval
between 0 and dcp, d −1 points, which are computed as
(dcp/d)i with 1 ≤i ≤d −1, are set as delay constraints.
Note that d is set to 5 in order to generate a large number
of resynthesized circuits. Even though some delay constraints
are impossible to meet, the synthesis tool always generates a
netlist equivalent to the original one in terms of functionality.
Maximum Transition: The transition time of a net in a circuit
is deﬁned as the longest time required for its driving pin to
change its logic value. We choose the maximum transition
value to be 5%, 10%, and 15% of the delay constraint for all
the nets in the locked circuit to explore different resynthesized
circuits.
Key Constraints: To direct the synthesis tool to work in-
tensively on the paths that contain the keyed logic, a delay
constraint, which is impossible to be satisﬁed, can also be
used. In this case, we force the delay between all key bits and
all primary outputs to be 1 ps.
Thus, the combination of parameters given above generates
3 × 3 × 4 × 5 × 3 × 2 = 1080 netlists. We eliminate the
resynthesized circuits with identical characteristics and keep
only the unique ones. Additionaly, we prevent the use of
XOR/XNOR gates, which can be problematic for the SCOPE
attack, during technology mapping. Note that our resynthesis
methodology aims to generate different versions of the locked
circuit, making it more vulnerable to existing attacks. Thus,
any existing attack, either OL or OG, may potentially beneﬁt
from this pre-attack strategy to discover the secret key.
B. Attacks on the Resynthesized Netlists
Time-efﬁcient attacks are chosen in order to handle a large
number of resynthesized circuits. In our OL resynthesis-based
attack, SCOPE [8] is used to predict the values of key bits. In
its modiﬁed version developed for compound logic locking,
a query attack is used to ﬁnd the values of key bits in a
deterministic way.
1) Proposed OL Attack: SCOPE is applied to each resyn-
thesized locked circuit and a solution is found. Note that this
solution may return a logic 0, 1, or an unknown value for
a key bit. Then, the values of key bits deciphered for each
netlist are merged into a single solution that represents the
overall guess. To do so, for each key bit, ki with 1 ≤i ≤p,
where p denotes the number of key bits, we initially count the
number of solutions, where ki is deciphered as logic 0 and
1, denoted as dk0
i and dk1
i , respectively. Then, if dk0
i > dk1
i
or dk1
i > dk0
i , the value of ki is determined to be 0 or 1,
respectively. Otherwise, in the case of a tie, the value of ki is
decided to be unknown.
2) Proposed OG Attack: In order to handle a large number
of resynthesized netlists efﬁciently, we introduce a SAT-based
query attack, which can determine the actual values of indi-
vidual key bits. Note that traditional SAT-based attacks rather
attempt to ﬁnd the whole secret key, which increases the
a
a
b
b
c
c
f
a
a
b
b
c
c
f
k 0
k 1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
k 0
k 1
0
0
0
0
k 0
k 1
(a)
(b)
(c)
f
Fig. 3.
(a) Majority circuit; (b) Locked majority circuit; (c) Constant
propagation on the locked majority circuit.
computational effort signiﬁcantly. In this attack, we initially
ﬁnd queries, i.e., values of inputs of the oracle circuit, using
two techniques. The ﬁrst technique uses the ATPG tool Ata-
lanta [30] to ﬁnd test patterns for the stuck-at-fault of each key
bit on the locked circuit and stores the values of the related
primary inputs as queries. The aim is to ﬁnd input patterns
that can propagate each key bit to a primary output, making
it observable. The second technique ﬁnds queries randomly.
The aim is to ﬁnd input patterns that may make multiple key
bits observable. In our experiments, we generate a total of 2p
queries, where p denotes the number of key bits.
Then, we describe the locked circuit in a conjunctive normal
form (CNF) formula C by expressing each gate in its CNF.
Each query is applied to the oracle and the values of primary
outputs are obtained. Then, the related input and output values
are assigned to the associated nets in the locked circuit, the
constant values of these nets are propagated, and the Boolean
equations including key bits are derived in a CNF formula E.
The SAT problem including the locked circuit in CNF, i.e.,
C, is augmented with these equations, i.e., C = C ∧E. After
all the queries are considered, the SAT problem C is solved
using a SAT solver and the values of key bits are determined.
Note that the locked circuit with the found values of key bits
behaves exactly the same as the oracle under the given queries,
but not under all possible input values. Hence, these key values
are not guaranteed to be the values of the secret key.
However, the value found for a key bit can be proved if it is
indeed equal to the actual value of the related bit in the secret
key using the concept of proof by contradiction. To do so, for
each key bit, the complement of its found value is added into
C and the SAT solver is run. If there exists no solution to C,
i.e., the SAT problem is unsatisﬁable, the value of the related
key bit is proven to be the one in the found solution.
As a simple example, consider the majority circuit in
Fig. 3(a) and suppose that it is locked using XOR/XNOR
gates as given in Fig. 3(b). Assume that a query is found as
abc = 000 and thus, the value of its output f is obtained as 0
using the oracle. After propagating these values on the locked
circuit as shown in Fig. 3(c), a Boolean equation k0 ∨k1 = 0,
i.e., k0 ∧k1 in CNF, is obtained. In the SAT solution, the key
bit values are found as k0k1 = 01. Note that these are the
proven key values since a SAT solver guarantees that there
exists no solution to the SAT problem C, which is extended
by either k0 = 1, i.e., k0 in CNF, or k1 = 0, i.e., k1 in CNF,
due to a conﬂict with the found Boolean equation, i.e., k0 ∧k1
in CNF.
TABLE I
DETAILS OF THE ISCAS’85 CIRCUITS.
Circuit
Original Netlist
Locked Netlist
p
Anti-SAT CASLock SFLL SKG-Lock
#in #out #gates
#gates
#gates
#gates
#gates
c2670
157 64
1193
64
1321
1320
1421
1401
c3540
50
22
1669
32
1733
1732
1783
1773
c5315
178 123 2307
64
2435
2434
2523
2514
c6288
32
32
2416
32
2480
2479
2531
2516
c7552
206 105 3512
64
3640
3639
3729
3713
The query attack is run on all the resynthesized circuits and
the proven values of key bits in each netlist are combined
into a single solution. Note that the query attack is developed
in Perl and is equipped with the incremental SAT solver
CaDiCaL [31].
Finally, the solution of the OG resynthesis-based attack is
determined after merging the solution of the SCOPE attack
over all resynthesized circuits into that of the query attack on
all resynthesized circuits without changing the proven values
of key bits.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
This section initially presents the results of the proposed
OL resynthesis-based attack on the ISCAS’85 circuits [32]
and then, those of the OG resynthesis-based attack on the
CSAW’19 circuits [24] including compound logic locking.
A. Results on the ISCAS’85 Circuits
As the ﬁrst experiment set, ﬁve ISCAS’85 circuits were
considered. Table I presents their details. For our exper-
iments, these circuits were locked by the Anti-SAT [11],
CASlock [12], SFLL [6], and SKG-Lock [14] techniques.
Note that while Anti-SAT and SFLL were taken from the
NEOS tool [33], SKG-Lock was provided by its developer, and
CASLock was implemented by ourselves. Table I also presents
details of the locked circuits. Note that the number of keys,
i.e., p, was determined based on the number of inputs and
overhead of the locking technique, and circuit characteristics,
i.e., the number of inputs, outputs, and gates, were taken from
the gate-level netlist.
Observe from Table I that all logic locking techniques lead
to circuits with a number of gates close to each other, whereas
the one locked by SFLL has a slightly large number of gates.
Besides, the overhead on the number of gates in circuits
locked by SFLL varies from 4.7% to 19.1% when compared
to original circuits.
In the following subsections, we present the results of the
resynthesis process and OL resynthesis-based attack, analyze
the impact of synthesis parameters on the performance of
the resynthesis process and SCOPE attack, and introduce
improvements to the run-time of the resynthesis process.
1) Resynthesis of the Locked ISCAS’85 Circuits: The resyn-
thesis is performed by Cadence Genus with a commercial
65 nm standard cell library, and the whole process is automated
in a Perl script. Table II presents the resynthesis results of
locked circuits. In this table, unique denotes the number of
unique locked netlists out of 1080 generated netlists and area,
delay, and power stand respectively for the average values of
total area in µm2, delay in the critical path in ps, and total
power dissipation in µW on the unique locked netlists. Finally,
time is the total run time of the resynthesis process. The
resynthesized netlists were generated on a computing server
with Intel Xeon processing units at 3.9 GHz and a total of
1 TB memory.
Observe from Table II that the number of unique netlists is
less than half of the total number of generated netlists, i.e.,
540, except the c3540 circuit locked by SKG-Lock. Note that
Anti-SAT, CASLock, and SFLL lead to fewer unique netlists
when compared to SKG-Lock, which is mainly because the
logic added by these techniques is more compact than that
added by SKG-Lock, which uses a chain of AND gates. We
note that the synthesis tool consumes a large amount of time
to fulﬁll a delay constraint that is impossible to meet, such
as strict delay constraints and key constraints described in
Section III-A. Hence, the run-time of the resynthesis process
depends on the locked circuit and the logic locking technique,
and more importantly, if there exists enough room for the
synthesis tool to satisfy the constraints.
In order to illustrate the diversity of resynthesized netlists,
the c2670 circuit locked by SFLL is considered. Fig. 4 presents
the area, delay, and power dissipation of each unique netlist,
normalized by their average values given in Table II. Observe
that resynthesis generates circuits signiﬁcantly different from
each other in terms of hardware complexity. The standard
deviation on area, delay, and power dissipation values of
all these netlists are computed as 1578, 235, and 4964,
respectively. Note also that in this ﬁgure, the netlists after
instance number 232 have a distinct proﬁle, since they are
generated using key constraints described in Section III-A.
In order to illustrate the differences in the structure of
generated netlists, the c2670 circuit locked by SKG-Lock
is considered. Fig. 5 presents the graphs of two netlists
resynthesized using the same synthesis parameters, except for
the delay constraint. In this ﬁgure, red, green, and blue circles
denote the inputs, key bits, and outputs, respectively; the gray
triangles represent the gates. Observe that a small change in
the delay constraint can lead to a structurally different netlist,
where the difference between the number of gates and logic
levels is 599 and 12, respectively.
2) Attacks on the Locked ISCAS’85 Circuits: Table III
presents the results of the SCOPE attack on the original locked
netlists and those of OL resynthesis-based attack on the unique
locked netlists generated in the resynthesis process. In this
table, cdk and dk stand respectively for the number of correctly
deciphered key bits and the total number of deciphered key
bits and time is the total time required for the attack. The
attacks were also run on the same server used to resynthesize
the locked netlists.
Observe from Table III that the SCOPE attack is not entirely
successful on any of the original locked netlists. However, the
use of resynthesized netlists enables us to decipher the values
of a large number of key bits, and even the whole key, e.g., for
the c2670 and c3540 circuits locked by SKG-Lock. Note that
TABLE II
RESULTS OF RESYNTHESIZED LOCKED ISCAS’85 CIRCUITS.
Technique
Details
c2670
c3540
c5315
c6288
c7552
Anti-SAT
#unique
480
537
464
498
439
area
2357
2803
4112
7265
5387
delay
504
818
663
2144
694
power
5518
4934
4297
9403
7479
time
17h14m51s
1d05h56m12s
1d09h56m22s
3d20h50m46s
1d16h01m13s
CASLock
#unique
473
449
488
410
479
area
2359
3112
4173
7739
5337
delay
513
874
650
2146
676
power
5170
3304
3852
10693
6765
time
15h29m56s
1d11h02m52s
1d06h52m54s
4d03h12m29s
1d16h06m52s
SFLL
#unique
468
484
477
523
504
area
2817
3444
4326
7646
5340
delay
481
870
697
2144
604
power
6189
6337
9053
12115
11320
time
13h13m23s
1d47m51s
21h57m07s
2d22h15m07s
22h40m29s
SKG-Lock
#unique
521
541
507
527
521
area
2673
2773
4646
6293
4774
delay
936
986
782
2093
874
power
3881
3831
8160
7201
7822
time
22h22m01s
1d08h8m27s
1d03h56m15s
2d14h29m32s
1d04h19m
 0.5
 1
 1.5
 2
 2.5
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 250
 300
 350
 400
 450
Normalized Area
Number of netlists
 0.5
 1
 1.5
 2
 2.5
 3
 3.5
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 250
 300
 350
 400
 450
Normalized Delay
Number of netlists
 0
 0.5
 1
 1.5
 2
 2.5
 3
 3.5
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 250
 300
 350
 400
 450
Normalized Power
Number of netlists
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 4. Normalized complexity of resynthesized netlists of the c2670 circuit locked by SFLL: (a) area; (b) delay; (c) power.
the SCOPE attack can decipher almost all of the key bits using
the resynthesized netlists locked by the SKG-Lock technique.
While the results on the netlists locked by SKG-Lock are all
correct, the ones on the netlists locked by Anti-SAT, CASLock,
and SFLL are slightly better than a random guess. The run time
of the SCOPE attack and our resynthesis-based attack depends
mainly on the number of gates and keys in the locked design.
To ﬁnd the SAT resiliency of resynthesized locked circuits,
the SAT-based attack of [10] was run on 541 netlists of the
c3540 circuit locked by SKG-Lock with a time limit of 2 days.
This circuit was chosen since it has the smallest number of key
bits with the smallest number of gates. Note that the SAT-based
attack was not able to ﬁnd the secret key of any resynthesized
locked netlists. This experiment indicates that the resynthesis
changes only the structure of the circuit as shown in Fig. 5,
but maintains its SAT resiliency.
3) Redundant Synthesis Runs:
Observe from Tables II
and III that the total run-time of the proposed attack is
dominated by the resynthesis process. However, it is possible
to reduce the time required to resynthesize the locked netlist
by removing redundant synthesis runs without sacriﬁcing any
unique netlists. For example, it is observed that the high
value of the syn_gen parameter given in Section III-A can be
removed from the parameter list, since all possible synthesis
scripts including this parameter generate the same circuit
when this parameter is low or medium. Thus, the number of
generated circuits, i.e., 1080, reduces to 720.
4) Convergence on the Number of Deciphered Keys: It
is also observed that the number of key bits deciphered
by the SCOPE attack on all unique resynthesized netlists
can actually be obtained using a small number of netlists.
Fig. 6 presents the number of deciphered key bits along the
unique resynthesized netlists of the c2670 circuit locked by
SKG-Lock. Observe from this ﬁgure that although a large
number of unique netlists increases the quality of the SCOPE
attack, actually a small number of unique netlists, 147 in this
case, is sufﬁcient to achieve the same result as when all 521
unique netlists are considered. We note that a similar situation
was also observed on circuits locked by other techniques.
5) Promising Resynthesized Netlists: Moreover, it is ob-
served that the SCOPE attack is more successful on speciﬁc
resynthesized netlists. To ﬁnd a set of synthesis parameters
that enables the SCOPE attack to decipher more key values,
we initially deﬁne two categories of netlists based on the slack
time of the design, i.e., the difference between the required
and arrived time in the critical path, as follows: i) netlists
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5. Graphs of resynthesized netlists generated using a difference in the delay constraint dc: (a) dc is 990 ps; (b) dc is 496 ps.
TABLE III
RESULTS OF ATTACKS ON THE LOCKED ISCAS’85 CIRCUITS.
Circuit
Anti-SAT
CASLock
SFLL
SKG-Lock
SCOPE
Resynthesis
SCOPE
Resynthesis
SCOPE
Resynthesis
SCOPE
Resynthesis
cdk/dk time
cdk/dk
time
cdk/dk time
cdk/dk
time
cdk/dk time
cdk/dk
time
cdk/dk time
cdk/dk
time
c2670
0/0
4s
37/64 34m18s
0/0
4s
35/64 33m47s
0/0
4s
34/64 37m32s
32/32
4s
64/64 44m37s
c3540
0/0
3s
17/32 21m27s
0/0
3s
17/32 18m12s
0/0
2s
19/32 21m29s
17/17
2s
32/32 24m30s
c5315
0/0
5s
38/64 42m34s
0/0
5s
30/64 43m54s
0/0
5s
33/64 46m23s
32/32
5s
62/62 52m06s
c6288
0/0
3s
18/32 29m08s
0/0
3s
16/32 27m18s
0/0
3s
16/31 33m19s
16/16
3s
31/31 34m24s
c7552
0/0
6s
38/64 45m31s
0/0
6s
47/64 49m13s
0/0
6s
38/63 52m26s
32/32
6s
61/61 56m45s
 30
 35
 40
 45
 50
 55
 60
 65
 0
 100
 200
 300
 400
 500
Number of deciphered keys
Number of netlists
Fig. 6. Convergence on the number of deciphered keys over the number of
resynthesized netlists in the SCOPE attack.
with a slack value less than or equal to 0; ii) netlists with a
slack value greater than 0. The slack value of a design gives
indeed a rough idea of the effort put in by the synthesis tool;
for the netlists in the ﬁrst category, the synthesis tool works
extremely hard to meet the delay constraint, trying many logic
transformations and optimization techniques.
Then, the solutions of the SCOPE attack on all possible
1080 netlists are obtained and sorted based on the number of
deciphered key bits in descending order. The top 10% of these
sorted netlists are categorized based on their slack values.
Fig. 7 presents the results of this experiment on the circuits
locked by SKG-Lock. Observe that the netlists that enable the
SCOPE attack to decipher more key values generally have a
slack value less than or equal to 0. Thus, to generate such
circuits, one can easily add strict delay constraints or key
constraints as described in Section III-A. We note that a similar
 0
 5
 10
 15
 20
 25
 30
 35
 40
 45
c2670
c3540
c5315
c6288
c7552
Number of netlists
Circuit
slack ≤ 0
slack > 0
Fig. 7. Classiﬁcation of resynthesized netlists based on their slack values on
promising solutions of SCOPE attack.
result was also observed on resynthesized netlists locked by
other techniques.
6) Structural Analysis: In order to improve the performance
of the resynthesis process, the logic cone, which is the locking
technique is applied on, can be extracted and resynthesized.
Note that the output of this logic cone is a single primary
output, while its inputs are primary inputs, but not necessarily
all the primary inputs of the locked design. Thus, the run-
time of the resynthesis process can be decreased, since the
logic cone has a small number of inputs, outputs, and gates
when compared to the whole locked circuit.
Table IV presents details on the resynthesis process on entire
locked circuits and logic cones when the circuits locked by
SFLL are used. Observe that the resynthesis process on a
logic cone generates less number of unique designs and takes
signiﬁcantly less time without a signiﬁcant loss on the solution
TABLE IV
RESULTS OF THE RESYNTHESIS PROCESS ON ENTIRE CIRCUIT AND LOGIC
CONE.
Circuit
Entire Circuit
Logic Cone
#unique
time
cdk/dk
#unique
time
cdk/dk
c2670
468
13h13m23s
34/64
319
07h46m26s
34/64
c3540
484
1d47m51s
19/32
320
06h29m35s
16/32
c5315
477
21h57m14s
33/64
313
07h06m16s
32/64
c6288
523
2d22h15m7s
16/31
302
06h20m57s
19/32
c7552
504
22h40m29s
38/63
279
06h57m14s
38/63
TABLE V
DETAILS OF THE LOCKED CSAW’19 CIRCUITS.
Circuit
Details
Number of keys
#in
#out
#gates
RLL
SFLL-rem
Total
small
522
512
15995
40
40
80
medium
767
757
24008
60
60
120
large
1452
1445
36584
80
80
160
bonus
892
1746
23004
128
128
256
quality when compared to the resynthesis process on the entire
circuit. We note that similar results were also observed on
circuits locked by other techniques.
B. Results on the CSAW’19 Circuits
As the second experiment set, we used the state-of-the-
art locked circuits from the CSAW’19 contest [24]. Details
of these circuits are given in Table V. Note that two logic
locking techniques – RLL [9] and SFLL-rem [13] – are applied
together to lock a circuit.
In the following two subsections, we present the results of
the resynthesis process and the resynthesis-based attack.
1) Resynthesis of the Locked CSAW’19 Circuits: Table VI
presents the resynthesis results of locked circuits. Observe that
the number of unique resynthesized netlists is larger than half
of the total number of generated netlists, i.e., 540. As the
hardware complexity of designs increases, the run-time of the
resynthesis process increases. We note that diverse netlists in
terms of complexity are obtained, e.g., the standard deviation
on area, delay, and power dissipation values of all the locked
netlists of the small circuit is computed as 8526, 1029, and
20074, respectively.
2) Attacks on the Locked CSAW’19 Circuits: Table VII
presents results of the attacks obtained, after they are applied
to the original locked netlist, denoted as OLN, and all unique
resynthesized netlists, denoted as URNs. In this table, prv
stands for the number of proven values of key bits. Note that
since the secret key is not publicly available, the cdk values
are omitted for the SCOPE and resynthesis-based attacks.
Observe from Table VII that the original SCOPE attack
could only decipher a small number of key bits, all of which
belongs to RLL, and the query attack can prove the values of a
large number of key bits, all of which again belong to RLL, on
the original locked circuits. Thus, the resynthesis-based attack
could only decipher the RLL key bits on the original locked
circuits. However, the use of resynthesized circuits makes the
SCOPE attack decipher more key bits that also belong to
SFLL-rem and makes the query attack prove the values of
TABLE VI
RESULTS OF RESYNTHESIZED LOCKED CSAW’19 CIRCUITS.
Circuit
unique
area
delay
power
time
small
557
18935
1631
23571
5d3h22m28s
medium
569
26080
1745
31284
6d12h24m16s
large
567
31348
1798
24610
5d21h42m10s
bonus
560
20643
1758
19090
4d14h44m29s
TABLE VII
RESULTS OF ATTACKS ON THE LOCKED CSAW’19 CIRCUITS.
Circuit-Netlist
SCOPE
Query
Resynthesis
dk
time
prv
time
dk
time
small - OLN
19
20s
39
1m21s
40
1m41s
small - URNs
77 4h10m42s
40 1d10h4m37s
79 1d14h15m19s
medium - OLN
32
41s
58
6m37s
59
7m18s
medium - URNs
117 8h33m56s
58 3d19h12m13s
120 4d3h46m9s
large - OLN
30
1m7s
79
6m19s
79
7m26s
large - URNs
15212h56m15s
80 3d2h52m11s
159 3d15h48m26s
bonus - OLN
64
1m46s
118
3m2s
120
4m48s
bonus - URNs
233 16h7m17s
1251d20h29m22s
252 2d12h36m39s
more key bits that belong to RLL. Thus, the resynthesis-based
attack could decipher almost all the values of the secret key,
proving almost all the values of the key bits of RLL. Note that
all the unknown key bits belong to SFLL-rem. Observe that
the run-time of attacks increases, as the number of gates and
key bits increases.
After the values of key bits of the CSAW’19 circuits were
determined, they were sent to the contest organizers for eval-
uation. Table VIII presents the results of the resynthesis-based
attack along with those of other techniques which participated
in the contest.
Observe from Table VIII that our proposed attack can
determine all the key bits of RLL correctly, even though there
are unproven key bits in the medium and bonus circuits as
shown in Table VII. This observation implies that the guesses
of the SCOPE attack on those key bits are actually correct.
Moreover, the proposed technique can decipher the key bits
of SFLL-rem with a number of deciphered key bits greater
than any other OL technique with a high accuracy.
V. CONCLUSIONS
This work has shown that EDA tools can be used to generate
variants of locked circuits that may be vulnerable to existing
logic locking attacks and such circuits can be generated using
a speciﬁc set of synthesis parameters. It was shown that the
run-time of the proposed technique can be improved using
a small number of resynthesized netlists without diminishing
its solution quality. Experimental results clearly indicated that
the use of many resynthesized circuits enables existing attacks
to decipher values of a large number of key bits with high
accuracy. Hence, the resynthesis of a locked circuit can be
utilized as a pre-attack step for many existing attacks in order
to improve their success rate. As future work, we plan to
consider other synthesis parameters, such as fanout, capaci-
tance limits, and wire loads, which enable synthesis tools to
generate different circuits. Also, we aim to incorporate other
TABLE VIII
RESULTS OF ATTACKS ON THE LOCKED CSAW’19 CIRCUITS.
Approach
Attack Scenario
Circuit
small (40+40)
medium (60+60)
large (80+80)
bonus (128+128)
RLL
SFLL-rem
RLL
SFLL-rem
RLL
SFLL-rem
RLL
SFLL-rem
Key sensitization [34]
OG
40/40
—
60/60
—
80/80
—
—
—
Hamming distance-based attack [24]
OG
30/30
—
50/50
—
72/72
—
—
—
Automated analysis + SAT [24]
OG
11/18
—
31/50
—
10/34
—
—
—
Sub-circuit SAT [24]
OG
17/17
—
29/29
—
—
—
—
—
Redundancy-based [27]
OL
28/28
4/12
35/35
23/28
45/45
0/51
66/66
8/27
Bit-ﬂipping attack [35]
OG
40/40
—
60/60
—
80/80
—
—
—
Topology guided attack [28]
OL
15/32
—
19/50
—
36/73
—
75/108
—
Resynthesis-based attack
OG
40/40
20/39
60/60
29/60
80/80
35/79
128/128
55/124
commercial and open source EDA tools into the resynthesis
process to generate different unique netlists.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank Nimisha Limaye for evaluating the keys
found by the proposed technique on the CSAW’19 bench-
marks.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Rostami, F. Koushanfar, and R. Karri, “A Primer on Hardware
Security: Models, Methods, and Metrics,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol.
102, no. 8, pp. 1283–1295, 2014.
[2] A. B. Kahng, J. Lach, W. H. Mangione-Smith, S. Mantik, I. L. Markov,
M. Potkonjak, P. Tucker, H. Wang, and G. Wolfe, “Watermarking
Techniques for Intellectual Property Protection,” in DAC, 1998, pp. 776–
781.
[3] Y. Alkabani, F. Koushanfar, and M. Potkonjak, “Remote Activation of
ICs for Piracy Prevention and Digital Right Management,” in ICCAD,
2007, pp. 674–677.
[4] F. Koushanfar, “Provably Secure Active IC Metering Techniques for
Piracy Avoidance and Digital Rights Management,” IEEE Transactions
on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 51–63, 2012.
[5] S. Dupuis and M.-L. Flottes, “Logic Locking: A Survey of Proposed
Methods and Evaluation Metrics,” J. Electron. Test., vol. 35, no. 3, pp.
273–291, 2019.
[6] M. Yasin, A. Sengupta, M. T. Nabeel, M. Ashraf, J. Rajendran, and
O. Sinanoglu, “Provably-Secure Logic Locking: From Theory To Prac-
tice,” in ACM CCS, 2017, pp. 1601–1618.
[7] K. Z. Azar, H. M. Kamali, H. Homayoun, and A. Sasan, “Threats on
Logic Locking: A Decade Later,” in GLVLSI, 2019, pp. 471–476.
[8] A. Alaql, M. M. Rahman, and S. Bhunia, “SCOPE: Synthesis-Based
Constant Propagation Attack on Logic Locking,” IEEE TVLSI, vol. 29,
no. 8, pp. 1529–1542, 2021.
[9] J. A. Roy, F. Koushanfar, and I. L. Markov, “EPIC: Ending Piracy of
Integrated Circuits,” in DATE, 2008, pp. 1069–1074.
[10] P. Subramanyan, S. Ray, and S. Malik, “Evaluating the Security of Logic
Encryption Algorithms,” in HOST, 2015, pp. 137–143.
[11] Y. Xie and A. Srivastava, “Anti-SAT: Mitigating SAT Attack on Logic
Locking,” IEEE TCAD, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 199–207, 2019.
[12] B. Shakya, X. Xu, M. Tehranipoor, and D. Forte, “CAS-Lock: A
Security-Corruptibility Trade-off Resilient Logic Locking Scheme,”
IACR Transactions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems,
vol. 2020, no. 1, pp. 175–202, 2019.
[13] A. Sengupta, M. Nabeel, N. Limaye, M. Ashraf, and O. Sinanoglu,
“Truly Stripping Functionality for Logic Locking: A Fault-Based Per-
spective,” IEEE TCAD, vol. 39, no. 12, pp. 4439–4452, 2020.
[14] Q.-L. Nguyen, M.-L. Flottes, S. Dupuis, and B. Rouzeyre, “On Prevent-
ing SAT Attack with Decoy Key-Inputs,” in ISVLSI, 2021, pp. 114–119.
[15] M. Yasin, B. Mazumdar, J. Rajendran, and O. Sinanoglu, “SARLock:
SAT Attack Resistant Logic Locking,” in HOST, 2016, pp. 236–241.
[16] X. Xu, B. Shakya, M. M. Tehranipoor, and D. Forte, “Novel Bypass
Attack and BDD-based Tradeoff Analysis Against All Known Logic
Locking Attacks,” in Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems,
2017, pp. 189–210.
[17] M. Yasin, B. Mazumdar, O. Sinanoglu, and J. Rajendran, “Removal
Attacks on Logic Locking and Camouﬂaging Techniques,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Emerging Topics in Computing, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 517–532,
2020.
[18] A. Sengupta, N. Limaye, and O. Sinanoglu, “Breaking CAS-Lock and
Its Variants by Exploiting Structural Traces,” IACR Transactions on
Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, vol. 2021, no. 3, p.
418–440, 2021.
[19] D. Sirone and P. Subramanyan, “Functional Analysis Attacks on Logic
Locking,” in DATE, 2019, pp. 936–939.
[20] F. Yang, M. Tang, and O. Sinanoglu, “Stripped Functionality Logic
Locking With Hamming Distance-Based Restore Unit (SFLL-hd) –
Unlocked,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security,
vol. 14, no. 10, pp. 2778–2786, 2019.
[21] Z. Han, M. Yasin, and J. Rajendran, “Does Logic Locking Work with
EDA Tools?” in USENIX Security Symposium, 2021, pp. 1055–1072.
[22] N. Limaye, S. Patnaik, and O. Sinanoglu, “Valkyrie: Vulnerability
Assessment Tool and Attack for Provably-Secure Logic Locking Tech-
niques,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security,
vol. 17, pp. 744–759, 2022.
[23] Y. Liu, M. Zuzak, Y. Xie, A. Chakraborty, and A. Srivastava, “Strong
Anti-SAT: Secure and Effective Logic Locking,” in ISQED, 2020, pp.
199–205.
[24] B.
Tan
et
al.,
“Benchmarking
at
the
Frontier
of
Hardware
Security: Lessons from Logic Locking,” 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.06806
[25] M. John, A. Hoda, R. Chouksey, and C. Karfa, “SAT Based Partial
Attack on Compound Logic Locking,” in Asian Hardware Oriented
Security and Trust Symposium, 2020, pp. 1–6.
[26] N. Limaye, S. Patnaik, and O. Sinanoglu, “Fa-SAT: Fault-aided SAT-
based Attack on Compound Logic Locking Techniques,” in DATE, 2021,
pp. 1166–1171.
[27] L. Li and A. Orailoglu, “Piercing Logic Locking Keys through Redun-
dancy Identiﬁcation,” in DATE, 2019, pp. 540–545.
[28] Y. Zhang, P. Cui, Z. Zhou, and U. Guin, “TGA: An Oracle-Less and
Topology-Guided Attack on Logic Locking,” in ASHES, 2019, p. 75–83.
[29] F. Almeida and L. Aksoy, “Resynthesis tool,” https://github.com/
Centre-for-Hardware-Security/resynthesis_attack, 2023.
[30] H. K. Lee and D. S. Ha, “On the Generation of Test Patterns for
Combinational Circuits,” Department of Electrical Engineering, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Tech. Rep. 12-93, 1993.
[31] A. Biere, K. Fazekas, M. Fleury, and M. Heisinger, “CaDiCaL, Kissat,
Paracooba, Plingeling and Treengeling entering the SAT Competition
2020,” in Proc. of SAT Competition 2020 – Solver and Benchmark
Descriptions, ser. Department of Computer Science Report Series B,
vol. B-2020-1.
University of Helsinki, 2020, pp. 51–53.
[32] F. Brglez and H. Fujiwara, “A Neutral Netlist of 10 Combinational
Benchmark Circuits and a Targeted Translator in FORTRAN,” in ISCAS,
1985, pp. 663–698.
[33] K. Shamsi, “Netlist Encryption and Obfuscation Suite,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://bitbucket.org/kavehshm/neos/src/master/
[34] J. Rajendran, Y. Pino, O. Sinanoglu, and R. Karri, “Security Analysis
of Logic Obfuscation,” in DAC, 2012, pp. 83–89.
[35] Y. Shen, A. Rezaei, and H. Zhou, “SAT-based Bit-Flipping Attack on
Logic Encryptions,” in DATE, 2018, pp. 629–632.
